---
url: https://www.cs.unibo.it/~montesi/CBD/Articoli/LanguageModelApproachIR.pdf
title: LanguageModelApproachIR.pdf
fetched_at: 2026-05-30T19:00:52
content_hash: sha1:64a06f8ae9ec8c56da754431b33549715bcec7b4
extractor: jina
---

Title: LanguageModelApproachIR.pdf

URL Source: https://www.cs.unibo.it/~montesi/CBD/Articoli/LanguageModelApproachIR.pdf

Published Time: 1998-12-30T11:36:09.000Z

Number of Pages: 7

Markdown Content:
# A Language Modeling Approach to Information Retrieval 

Jay M. Ponte and W. Bruce Croft      

> Computer Science Department University of Massachusetts, Amherst {ponte, croft}&s.umass.edu

Abstract Models of document indexing and docu-ment retrieval have been extensively studied. The in-tegration of these two classes of models has been the goal of several researchers but it is a very difficult prob-lem. We argue that much of the reason for this is the lack of an adequate indexing model. This suggests that perhaps a better indexing model would help solve the problem. However, we feel that making unwarranted parametric assumptions will not lead to better retrieval performance. Furthermore, making prior assumptions about the similarity of documents is not warranted ei-ther. Instead, we propose an approach to retrieval based on probabilistic language modeling. We estimate models for each document individually. Our approach to model-ing is non-parametric and integrates document indexing and document retrieval into a single model. One advan-tage of our approach is that collection statistics which are used heuristically in many other retrieval models are an integral part of our model. We have implemented our model and tested it empirically. Our approach sig-nificantly outperforms standard tf.idf weighting on two different collections and query sets. 

1 Introduction 

Over the past three decades, probabilistic models of doc-ument retrieval have been studied extensively. In gen-eral, these approaches can be characterized as methods of estimating the probability of relevance of documents to user queries. One component of a probabilistic re-trieval model is the indexing model, i.e., a model of the assignment of indexing terms to documents. We argue that the current indexing models have not led to im-proved retrieval results. We believe this is due to two unwarranted assumptions made by these models. We have taken a different approach based on non-parametric estimation that allows us to relax these assumptions. We have implemented our approach and empirical results on two different collections and query sets are significantly better than the standard tf.idf method of retrieval. Now we take a brief look at some existing models of document indexing. We begin our discussion of indexing models with the 2-Poisson model, due to Bookstein and Swanson [l] and                               

> Permission to make digital/hard copy of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial ad-vantage, the copyright notice, the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of ACM, Inc. To copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or fee. SIGIR’93, Melbourne, Australia @1998 ACM l-58113-015-5 8/98 $5.00.

also to Harter [7]. By analogy to manual indexing, the task was to assign a subset of words contained in a doc-ument (the ‘specialty words’) as indexing terms. The probability model was intended to indicate the useful in-dexing terms by means of the differences in their rate of occurrence in documents ‘elite’ for a given term, i.e., a document that would satisfy a user posing that sin-gle term as a query, vs. those without the property of eliteness. The success of the 2-Poisson model has been some-what limited but it should be noted that Robertson’s tf, 

which has been quite successful, was intended to behave similarly to the 2-Poisson model [12]. Other researchers have proposed a mixture model of more than two Poisson distributions in order to better fit the observed data. Margulis proposed the n-Poisson model and tested the idea empirically [lo]. The conclu-sion of this study was that a mixture of n-Poisson distri-butions provides a very close fit to the data. In a certain sense, this is not surprising. For large values of n one can fit a very complex distribution arbitrarily closely by a mixture of n parametric models if one has enough data to estimate the parameters [18]. However, what is some-what surprising is the closeness of fit for relatively small values of n reported by Margulis [lo]. Nevertheless, the n-Poisson model has not brought about increased retrieval effectiveness in spite of the close fit to the data. In any event, the semantics of the under-lying distributions are less obvious in the n-Poisson case as compared to the 2-Poisson case where they model the concept of eliteness. Apart from the adequacy of of the available index-ing models, estimating the parameters of these models is a difficult problem. Researchers have looked at this problem from a variety of perspectives and we will dis-cuss several of these of these approaches in section 2. In addition, as previously mentioned, many of the current indexing models make assumptions about the data that we feel are unwarranted.  

> l

The parametric assumption.  

> l

Documents are members of pre-defined classes. In our approach we relax these two assumptions. Rather than making parametric assumptions, as is done in the 2-Poisson model it is assumed that terms follow amixture of two Poisson distributions, as Silverman said, “the data will be allowed to speak for themselves [16].” We feel that it is unnecessary to construct a parametric model of the data when we have the actual data. Instead, we rely on non-parametric methods. Regarding the second assumption, the 2-Poisson model was originally based on the idea of ‘eliteness’ [7]. It was assumed that a document elite for a given term would 

275 satisfy a user if the user posed that single term as a query. Since that time, the prevailing view has come to be that multiple term queries are more realistic. In general, this requires a combinatorial explosion of elite sets for all pos-sible subsets of terms in the collection. We take the view that each query needs to be looked at individually and that documents will not necessarily fall cleanly into elite and non-elite sets. In order to relax these assumptions and to avoid the difficulties imposed by separate indexing and retrieval models, we have developed an approach to retrieval based on probabilistic language modeling. Our approach pro-vides a conceptually simple but explanatory model of re-trieval. At this time, we should make clear what we mean by the word ‘model.’ In our view, the word ‘model’ is used in information retrieval in two senses. The first sense denotes an abstraction of the retrieval task itself. The best example of this is the vector space model which allows one to talk about the task of retrieval apart from implementation details such as storage media, and data structures [15]. A second sense of the word ‘model’ is the probabilistic sense where it refers to an explanatory model of the data. This was intention behind the 2-Poisson model. We add a third sense of the word when we refer to lan-guage modeling. The phrase ‘language model’ is used by the speech recognition community to refer to a probabil-ity distribution that captures the statistical regularities of the generation of language [21]. In the context of the retrieval task, we can treat the generation of queries as a random process. Generally speaking, language mod-els for speech attempt to predict the probability of the next word in an ordered sequence. For the purposes of document retrieval, one can model occurrences at the document level without regard to sequential effects and will be the approach taken here. It is also possible to model local predictive effects for features such as phrases but that will be left for future work. Regarding query generation as a random process, it is not the case that queries really are generated randomly, but it is the case that retrieval systems are not endowed with knowledge of the generation process. Instead, we will treat language generation as a random process modeled by a probability distribution and focus on the estimation of probabilities as a means of achieving effective retrieval. Our approach to retrieval is to infer a language model for each document and to estimate the probability of gen-erating the query according to each of these models. We then rank the documents according to these probabili-ties. This means that our data model and our discrim-inant function for retrieval are one and the same. The intuition behind our approach is that, in our view, users have a reasonable idea of terms that are likely to occur in documents of interest and will choose query terms that distinguish these documents from others in the collection, an intuition discussed in more detail in section 5. By fo-cusing on the query generation probability as opposed to the probability of relevance, our model does not require us to make a set of inferences for indexing and a separate set of inferences for retrieval. Most retrieval systems use term frequency, document frequency and document length statistics. Typically these are used to compute a tf.idf score with docu-ment length normalization. An example of this is the INQUERY ranking formula shown in section 4.3. In our approach, collection statistics such as term fro quency, document length and document frequency are integral parts of the language model and are not used heuristically as in many other approaches. For this rea-son, we do not use the standard tf and idf scores. In addition, length normalization is implicit in the calcula-tion of the probabilities and does not have to be done in an ad hoc manner. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. In section 2 we review some existing retrieval models. Section 3 describes a language modeling approach that closely parallels the standard approach to IR. Section 4shows the effectiveness of this model empirically. Finally we offer concluding remarks and describe future direc-tions of this work. 2 Previous Work 

As mentioned previously. the standard probabilistic in-dexing model is the Z-Poisson model. One of the assump-tions of the model was that a subset of terms occurring in a document would be useful for indexing. According to Harter (71, such words can be identified by their distribu-tion and thereby assigned as indexing terms. Documents were assumed to be of approximately equal length, a rea-sonable assumption for the data used in the initial studies [7]. This model is somewhat similar to ours if one views the probability of term assignment as analogous to the term generation probability. The two main differences are that we do not make distributional assumptions and we do not not distinguish a subset of specialty words or assume a preexisting classification of documents into elite and non-elite sets. Two well known probabilistic approaches to retrieval are the Robertson and Sparck Jones model [14] and the Croft and Harper model [3]. Both of these models esti-mate the probability of relevance of each document to the query. Our approach differs in that we do not focus on relevance except to the extent that the process of query production is correlated with it. An additional probabilistic model is that of Fuhr [4]. A notable feature of the Fuhr model is the integration of indexing and retrieval models. The main difference be-tween this approach and ours is that in the Fuhr model the collection statistics are used in a heuristic fashion in order to estimate the probabilities of assigning concepts to documents. In our approach, we are able to avoid US-

ing heuristic methods since we are not inferring concepts from terms. Another recent probabilistic approach is the INQUERY inference network model by Turtle and Croft [19]. Simi-lar to the Fuhr model, Turtle and Croft integrate index-ing and retrieval by making inferences of concepts from features. Features include words, phrases and more com-plex structured features. Evidence from multiple feature sets and multiple queries can be combined by means of a Bayesian network in order to infer the probability that the information need of the user has been met. This distinction between information need and query is a no-table feature of this model. As previously noted, in our approach, we have shifted our emphasis from probability of relevance to probability of query production. We as-sume these are correlated but do not currently attempt to model that correlation explicitly. We will discuss this point further in section 5. In section 3 we will discuss our probability estimation procedure. One statistic that we will be using is the av-erage probability of term occurrence. A similar statistic was used by Kwok [9] for a different purpose. Kwok used 276 the unnormalized average tf to estimate the importance of a term with respect to the query. In our approach we use the average of tf normalized by document length in the estimation of the generation probability. Wong and Yao [20] proposed a model in which they represented documents according to a probability distri-bution. They then developed two separate approaches to retrieval, one based on utility theory and the other based on information theory. Regarding the probability distribution, Wong and Yao use a maximum likelihood estimator for term probabilities. In our approach, we use a more robust estimator. Wong and Yao’s utility and information theoretic retrieval models are somewhat analogous to other approaches to retrieval in that they have an indexing model apart from their retrieval model. Terms are associated with documents according to the maximum likelihood probability estimate and the dis-criminant is a utility theoretic or information theoretic function of this estimate. In our approach we have been able to avoid this extra complexity and perform retrieval according to a single probabilistic model. The most similar approach to the one we have taken is that of Kalt [8]. In this model, documents are assumed to be generated by a stochastic process; a multinomial model. The task Kalt investigated was text classification. Each document was treated as a sample from a language model representing the class of that document. In this model, tf and document length are both integral parts of the model rather than being heuristics as they are in many other models. The discriminant function is taken to be the maximum likelihood estimator of the query given the document’s language model. Note that the ‘query’ in this case was inferred from the training set in the context of the classification task. While our approach is conceptually somewhat differ-ent, it is clearly related to the Kalt approach and shares the desirable property that the collection statistics are in-tegral parts of the model, In our initial study we have de-liberately not made any distributional assumptions. An-other major difference from the Kalt approach is that we do not rely on the maximum likelihood estimator but instead use a more robust estimator. Next, we do not assume that documents were necessarily drawn from I; language models representing the k classes of interest. Instead, we make a weaker assumption that we can get estimates of each document’s language model individu-ally without making inferences about the class member-ship of documents. We then use these models to compute the query generation probability. We now describe the development of our approach. 3 Model Description As mentioned, we infer a language model for each doc-ument and rank according to our estimate of producing the query according to that model. We would like to es-timate $(Q]Md), the probability of the query given the language model of document d. The maximum likelihood estimate of the probability of term t under the term distribution for document d is: where tf~~,~) is the raw term frequency of term t in document d and d&j is the total number of tokens in doc-ument d. We assume that given a particular language model that the query terms occur independently. This gives rise to the ranking formula fl,,, &,l(t, d) for each document. There are several problems with this estima-tor. The most obvious practical problem is that we do not wish to assign a probability of zero to a document that is missing one or more of the query terms. In addi-tion to this practical consideration, from a probabilistic perspective, it is a somewhat radical assumption to infer that p(i!]Md) = 0. I.e., the fact that we have not seen it does not make it impossible. Instead, we make the a~-sumption that a non-occurring term is possible, but no more likely than what would be expected by chance in the collection. I.e., d, where cft is the raw count of term tin the collection%d cs is the raw collection size or the total number of tokens in the collection. This provides us with a more reasonable distribution and circumvents the practical problem. It should be noted that in homo-geneous databases, one may need to use a more careful estimate of the collection probability since, in some cases the absence of a very frequently occurring word (i.e. aword with the characteristics of a stopword) could con-ceivably contribute more to the score of a document in which it does not occur. This is not a problem in the collections we have studied as they are heterogeneous in nature and stopwords have been removed, but we plan to address this issue in the future to be sure that our approach will be immune to these pathological cases. The other problem with this estimator may be less obvious. If we could get an arbitrary sized sample of data from Md we could be reasonably confident in the maximum likelihood estimator. However we only have a document sized sample from that distribution. To cir-cumvent this problem we are going to need an estimate from a larger amount of data. That estimate is: where df, is the document frequency of t. In other words, the mean probability oft in documents containing it. This is a robust statistic in the sense that we have a lot more data from which to estimate it but it too has a problem. We cannot and are not assuming that every document containing t is drawn from the same language model and so there is some risk in using the mean to estimate fJ(i?]Md) furthermore if we used the mean by itself, there would be no distinction between documents with different term frequencies. In order to benefit from the robustness of this estima-tor and to minimize the risk we will model the risk for a term t in a document d using the geometric distribution [22] as follows: where 7, is the the mean term frequency of term t in documents where t occurs, i.e., pavg(t) x d&i. Another way to say this is that 7, is the term count one would get if the term occurred at the average rate. The intuition behind this formula is that as the tf gets further away from the normalized mean, the mean probability becomes riskier to use as an estimate. For a somewhat related use of the geometric distribution see [5]. Now we will use this risk function as a mixing param-eter in our calculation of fi(Q]Md), our estimate of the probability of producing the query for a given document model as follows: 

277 Let,  

> fi(tlMd) =

p,,(t, d)(‘.‘-‘-) x p_,(t)%-5!L if tf(t,d) > 0

otherwise c.5 

Then, 

# XII 1.0 - $(tlkfd) 

tBQ 

In this formula, the first term is the probability of producing the terms in the query and the second term is the probability of not producing other terms. Notice the risk function, &,d and the background probability 2mentioned earlier. We compute this function for each candidate document and rank accordingly. Now we de-scribe our empirical results. 4 Empirical Results 4.1 Data 

We performed recall/precision experiments on two data sets. The first set was TREC topics 202-250 on TREC disks 2 and 3, the TREC 4 ad hoc task and the second was TREC topics 51-100 on TREC disk 3 using the concept fields. We chose these query sets because they are quite different from each other. The 51-100 concept fields are essentially lists of good terms while topics 202-250 are ‘natural language’ queries consisting of one sentence each. 4.2 Implementation We have implemented a research prototype retrieval en-gine known as Labrador to test our approach. This en-gine was originally implemented as a high throughput retrieval system in the context of our previous work on topic segmentation [13]. For these experiments, the sys-tem does tokenization, stopping and stemming in the usual way. We have implemented both standard tf.idf 

weighting as well our language modeling approach. 4.3 Recall/Precision Experiments Table 1 shows the results for TREC topics 202-250 on TREC disks 2 and 3. In the figure we see the eleven point recall/precision results as well as the non-interpolated av-erage precision and precision figures for the top N doc-uments for several values of N. The first two columns compare the baseline result to our new approach. The baseline result was obtained using the INQUERY ranking formula which uses Robertson’s tf score and a standard 

idf score and is defined as follows:    

> Ifbelt,d =
> tft.d
> tft.d + o.5 + 1.5 .,;:,4,,

idf, = log( F)/ log(N + 1) 

t

The third column reports the percent change. Col-umn four is of the form I/D where I is the count of 

## -s-r 

&et.: Prec. 0.00    

> 0.10 0.20 0.30 0.40 0.50 0.60 0.70 0.80 0.90 1.00 Avg: Prec. 510 15 20 30 100 200 500 1000 RPr tf.idf LM %chg

1 I/D 1 Sign 1 Wk. 6501 6501 3201 3364 +5.09 [ 36143 1 O.OOOO* 1 0.0002*         

> 0.7439
> 0.4521 0.3514 0.2761 0.2093 0.1558 0.1024 0.0451 0.0160 0.0033 0.0028 0.1868 0.4939 0.4449 0.3932 0.3643 0.3313 0.2157 0.1655 0.1004 0.0653 0.2473
> 0.7590
> 0.4910 0.4045 0.3342 0.2572 0.2061 0.1405 0.0760 0.0432 0.0063 0.0050 0.2233 +2.0 +8.6 +15.1 +21.0 +22.9 +32.3 +37.1 +68.7 +169.6 +89.3 +76.9 +19.55 0.4435 +12.8 0.4051 +11.2 0.3707 +11.9 0.2500 +15.9 0.1903 +15.0 0.1119 +11.4 0.0687 +5.1 0.2876

1 +16.32 

10/22                    

> 24/42 27/44 28/43 25139 24/35 22/27 13/15 9/10 213 213 32/49 Tipi 22130 19126 22134 28141 32/42 35/44 36/44 36/43 34/43 0.7383 0.5709
> 0.2204 0.0761 0.0871 0.0081~ 0.0330* 0.0054* 0.0541 0.0158* 0.0205* O.OOlS* O.OOOS* 0.0027* 0.0037* 0.0062* 0.0107* 0.0035* 0.6682 0.4106 O.OOSl* 0.0154* 0.0145* 0.0038* 0.0607 0.0218* 0.0138* 0.0070* 0.0005* 0.0003* 0.0001* o.oooo* o.oooo* o.oooo* o.oooo* 0.0002* 0.0001* o.oooo*

Table 1: Comparison of tf.idf to the language modeling approach on TREC queries 202-250 on TREC disks 2 and 3. queries for which performance improved using the new method and D is count of queries for which performance was different. Column five reports significance values ac-cording to the sign test and column six does likewise ac-cording to the Wilcoxon test. The entries in these two columns marked with a star indicate a statistically sig-nificant difference at the 0.05 level. Note that these are one sided tests. Notice that on the eleven point recall/precision sec-tion, the language modeling approach achieves better precision at all levels of recall, significantly at several lev-els. Also notice that there is a significant improvement in recall, uninterpolated average precision and R-precision, the precision after R documents where R is equal to the number of relevant documents for each query. On the sec-ond part of the figure there is again an improvement at all levels of recall, most of them statistically significant. The results for TREC queries 51-100 on TREC disk 3 are shown in table 2. Once again we see improvement in precision at all levels of recall on the eleven point chart and we also see improvement in precision for each level of recall by document count. Several levels show a sig-nificant improvement. 4.4 Improving the Basic Model We now try to improve our probability estimates since, according to our model, this should yield better retrieval performance. A simple improvement of the estimate de-veloped in section 3 is to smooth the estimates of the av-erage probability for terms with low document frequency. The estimate of the average probability of these terms is based on a small amount of data and so could be sensitive to outliers. In order to correct for this, we binned the low fre-quency data by document frequency and used the binned estimate for the average. We used a cutoff of u’f = 100 for low frequency terms, though it turned out that the cutoff is not critical. 

278 tf.idf 1 LM %chg 1 I/D 1 Sign 1 Wk. 

10485 1 10485 5818 1 6105 +4.93 [ 32142 1 0.0005* 1 0.0003* 

Rel: 

Rret.: Prec. 0.00 0.10 0.20 0.30 0.40 0.50 0.60 0.70 0.80 0.90 1.00 Avg: Prec. 510 15 20 30 100 200 500 1000 RPr +7.3 +2.9 +4.9 +8.2 +8.4 +16.2 +15.2 +21.5 +3.7 -14.9 -11.9 +8.74 +12.0 +3.5 +2.4 +4.7 +7.0 +6.5 +6.8 +4.7 $4.9 +6.24 24/45 28/47 25145 26140 20/30 14/22 8/13 l/4 l/2 32/50 0.7383 0.1456 0.3830 0.1215 0.2757 0.0403* 0.0494* 0.1431 0.2905 0.3125 0.7500 0.0325* 0.2961 0.1017 0.1405 0.0277* 0.0286* 0.0007* 0.0025* 0.0288* 0.2108 undef undef 0.0015* iFpi 0.0392* 0.0125* 14/30 0.7077 0.1938 14/28 0.5747 0.3002 16/34 0.6962 0.1260 20/32 0.1077 0.0095* 29145 0.0362* 0.0076* 29144 0.0244* 0.0009* 30142 0.0040* 0.0011* 32142 0.0005* 0.0003* 30143 0.0069* 0.0052* LM LM2 %chg 1 I/D I Sign I Wik. 

6501 6501 3364 3350 -0.42 I 16133 I 0.5000 I 0.4432 

# I

# I

Rel: 

Rret :

Prec. 0.00 0.10 0.20 0.30 0.40 0.50 0.60 0.70 0.80 0.90 1.00 Avg: Prec. 510 15 20 30 100 200 500 1000 RPr 

0.7590 0.7717 +1.7 0.4910 0.5115 +4.2 0.4045 0.4137 +2.3 0.3342 0.3539 +5.9 0.2572 0.2709 +5.3 0.2061 0.2164 +5.0 0.1405 0.1405 -0.0 0.0760 0.0724 -4.8 0.0432 0.0450 +4.1 0.0063 0.0065 +4.6 0.0050 0.0040 -19.1 0.2233 0.2318 +3.81 

11/17 

25141 23/42 26142 23137 23133 15124 4114 5/9 213 2/3 34/49 0.1662 0.1055 0.3220 0.0821 0.0939 0.0175* 0.9242 0.0898 0.5000 0.5000 0.8750 0.0047* 0.1137 0.0194* 0.2100 0.0275* 0.0420* 0.0222* 0.8197 0.0886 undef undef undef 0.0055* 0.5020 0.5469 +8.9 

0.4898 0.5082 f3.7 0.4435 0.4571 +3.1 0.4051 0.4235 +4.5 0.3707 0.3755 +1.3 0.2500 0.2655 +6.2 0.1903 0.1932 +1.5 0.1119 0.1128 +0.8 0.0687 0.0684 -0.4 0.2876 0.2928 +1.79 151/17 12122 14/23 18/25 16134 28/39 18130 21137 16133 19134 

1: :able 3: Comparison 01 E the Ioriginal language model-ing approach to the new language modeling approach on TREC queries 202-250 on TREC disks 2 and 3. 

0.7274 0.4861 0.3898 0.3352 0.2826 0.2163 0.1561 0.0913 0.0510 0.0179 0.0005 0.2286 00:5080 0.4933 0.4670 0.4293 0.3344 0.2670 0.1797 0.1164 0.2836 0.7805 0.5002 0.4088 0.3626 0.3064 0.2512 0.1798 0.1109 0.0529 0.0152 0.0004 0.2486 0.5960 0.5260 0.5053 0.4890 0.4593 0.3562 0.2852 0.1881 0.1221 0.3013 

Table 2: Comparison of tf.idf to the language modeling approach on TREC queries 51-100 on TREC disk 3. This new estimate of the average is incorporated into our ranking formula as before and rerun on TREC queries 202-250 against TREC disks 2 and 3 and the results are shown in table 3. The results show a statistically significant improve-ment in precision at several levels of recall. The aver-age precision is also improved. Running the new model on our second query set, TREC queries 51-100 against TREC disk 3, we get the result shown in table 4. Again we see significant improvements, albeit modest ones, at several levels of recall and on average. Our con-jecture is that that smaller improvement on this query set is due to the longer average query length as compared to the other query set. It appears that for low frequency terms, the effects on the average due to outliers is just as likely to overestimate as it is to underestimate and so these effects cancel each other out with more terms in the query. However, this is only a conjecture, the verification of which we leave for future work. 

5 Conclusions and Future Work 

We have presented a novel way of looking at the problem of text retrieval based on probabilistic language modeling that is both conceptually simple and explanatory. We feel that our model will provide effective retrieval and can be improved to the extent that the following conditions can be met: 1. Our language models are accurate representations of the data. 2. Users understand our approach to retrieval. 3. Users have a some sense of term distribution. We feel that condition one has been met reasonably well by the approach we have taken in this study. How-ever, we also feel that our models can and should be im-proved. Our current language models do not incorporate any knowledge of the language generation process. It is 

> D

Rel: Rret.: Prec. 0.00 0.10 0.20 0.30 0.40 0.50 0.60 0.70 0.80 0.90 1.00 Avg: Prec. 510 15 20 30 100 200 500 1000 RPr LM LM2 %chg I I/D 1 Sign I Wk. 

10485 10485 6105 6107 +0.03 I 3/5 1 0.5000 1 undef 

+o.o 

+0.7 +0.1 +0.2 +0.4 -0.3 -1.2 +0.3 +0.1 +0.9 +0.4 i-O.08 

## 3Js 

16/20 16/25 13/18 16/24 11/25 10/20 9112 5/8 l/2 l/l 28139 +0.7 +o.o +0.8 +0.6 +0.4 +0.2 +0.2 +0.1 +o.o -0.08 -v O/O 3/3 4/5 518 517 8111 619 315 8/12 

# I

# I

0.5000 0.0059* 0.1148 0.0481* 0.0758 0.3450 0.5881 0.0730 0.3633 0.7500 0.5000 0.0047* 0.5000 1.0000 0.1250 0.1875 0.3633 0.2266 0.1133 0.2539 0.5000 0.9270 0.7807 0.5038 0.4093 0.3634 0.3077 0.2505 0.1777 0.1113 0.0530 9.0154 1.0004 1.2488 0.6000 0.5260 0.5093 0.4920 0.4613 0.3568 0.2859 0.1884 0.1221 0.3011 0.7805 0.5002 0.4088 0.3626 0.3064 0.2512 0.1798 0.1109 0.0529 0.0152 0.0004 0.2486 0.5960 0.5260 0.5053 0.4890 0.4593 0.3562 0.2852 0.1881 0.1221 0.3013 

Table 4: Comparison of the original language model-ing approach to the new language modeling approach on TREC queries 51-100 on TREC disk 3. 

279 possible that additional knowledge added to the models will yield better estimates. Regarding point two, we feel that our model is sim-ple enough to be explained to users at an intuitive level and that the understanding of it will facilitate the for-mation of better queries. It is not that users will need or want to know the details of the model but it is more the case that if users have a general understanding of how the system works, they will be able to use it more effectively. Users are typically instructed to pose natu-ral language descriptions of their information needs as queries. A user that understands our model will tend to think in terms of which words will help the system distin-guish the documents of interest from everything else. We feel that if we can get users to think in this manner they will be able to formulate queries that will better express their information needs in manner useful to the retrieval system. Regarding point three, in order for users to identify useful words, we feel that they would benefit from a sense of how the words are distributed in the collection. Again, it is not the case that users need or want to know the term distribution in detail, but a sense of which terms are more likely to be useful would be beneficial. We can imagine a variety of both textual and graphical tools to help users get a better sense of the distribution of terms. This especially important to win over expert users who often prefer boolean retrieval because they like the sense of control over the search [2]. Regarding the results of our study, performance on two different query sets was better than that obtained by tf.idf weighting. However, the improvement in per-formance is not the main point. More significant is that a different approach to retrieval has been shown to be ef-fective. The ability to think about retrieval in a new way can lead to insights that would be less obvious in other approaches. Of course, the converse is is also true, and so rather than viewing our approach as a competing model, we view it as a one of a number of tools for investigating retrieval. Our second set of experiments showed that using simple smoothing yields results significantly better than baseline on both query sets. This is an example of an insight gained from our approach that is not an obvious consequence of other approaches. It is also possible that a more elaborate smoothing technique or perhaps other techniques such as data transformation would improve results further. We plan to investigate these matters in the future. We also need to address the estimate of default prob-ability. As mentioned, our current estimator could in some strange cases assign a higher probability to a non-occurring query term. This could only happen in cases of very commonly occuring terms, i.e., terms which are not likely to be useful, however, we feel we should ad-dress this problem in order to insure the robustness of our model in such cases. Our approach will be to apply a smoothing based estimator that will guarantee a default probability estimate that cannot exceed the lowest esti-mate that we assign to a document in which a given term occurs. Finally, the generative language model seems to be an intuitive way to think about query expansion techniques such as relevance feedback or local feedback. We intend to derive these techniques from our model rather than attempting to explain existing techniques. 6 Acknowledgments 

The authors would like to thank Warren GreiII for his comments on several aspects of this work and for numer-ous useful comments on an early draft. Thanks to Ron Papka for his remarks on an early draft of this paper. Also, thanks to Tom Kalt for several useful discussions. This material is based on work supported in part by the National Science Foundation, Library of Congress and Department of Commerce under cooperative agree-ment number EEC-9209623. This material is also based on work supported in part by United States Patent and Trademark Office and Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency/IT0 under ARPA order number D468, issued by ESC/AXS contract number F19628-95-C-0235. Any opinions, findings and conclusions or recommenda-tions expressed in this material are the authors and do not necessarily reflect those of the sponsors. 

References 

## PI 

## PI 

[31 141 [51 PI (71 PI PI PO1 WI 

Bookstein, A. and D. Swanson. “Probabilistic mod-els for automatic indexing” Journal for the Amer-ican Society for Information Science. v.25 no.5 pp. 312-318, 1976. Byrd, D. Personal Communication. 1998. Croft, W. B. and D. J. Harper. “Using probabilis-tic models of document retrieval without relevance information.” Journal of Documentation, 35, 1979 (pp. 285-295). Fuhr, N. “Models for Retrieval with Probabilistic Indexing” Information Processing and Management. v. 25, no. 1 1989. Ghosh, M. J., T. Hwang and K. W. Tsui. ‘Construc-tion of Improved Estimators in Multiparameter Es-timation for Discrete Exponential Families.” Annals of Statistics, v. 11, 351-367. Greenwood, M. and G. U. Yule. “An Inquiry into the Nature of Frequency Distribution Representative of Multiple Happenings with Particular Reference to the Occurrence of Multiple Attacks of Disease or of Repeated Accidents.” Journal of the Royal Statisti-cal Society. v. 83, pp. 255-279, 1920. Harter, S. P. “A Probabilistic Approach to Auto-matic Keyword Indexing” Journal of the American Society for Information Science, July-August, 1975. Kalt, T. “A New Probabilistic Model of Text Clas-sification and Retrieval”, CIIR Tech. Report No. 78, 1996. Kwok, K. L. “A New Method of Weighting Query Terms for Ad-Hoc Retrieval”, In proceedings of ACM SIGIR 1996, pp 187-195. Margulis, E. L. “Modeling documents with multiple Poisson distributions.” Information Processing and Management v. 29 no. 2 pp. 215-227, 1993. Parzen, E. “On estimation of a probability density function and mode.” Annals of Mathematical Statis-tics, vol. 33, 1962. 

> 280

[12] Robertson, S. E. and S. Walker. Some simple effec-tive approximations to the 2-Poisson model for prob-abilistic weighted retrieval. In proceedings of ACM SIGIR 1994. pp. 232-241. [13] Ponte, J. M. and W. B. Croft. “Text Segmentation by Topic,” in Proceedings of the First European Conference on Research and Advanced Technology for Digital Libraries, 1997. [14] Robertson, S. E. and K. Sparck Jones. “Relevance Weighting Of Search Terms,” Journal of the Amer-ican Society for Information Science, vol. 27, 1977. [15] Salton, G. Automatic Tezt Processing. Addison Wesley, 1989. [16] Silverman, B. W. Density Estimation for Statistics 

and Data Analysis Chapman and Hall, 1986. [17] Terrell, G. R. and D. W. Scott. “Oversmoothed Nonparametric Density Estimators” Journal of the American Statistical Association. Vol. 3, Number 389, 1985. [18] Titterington, D. M., U. E. Makov and A. F. MSmith. Statistical Analysis of Finite Mixture Dis-tributions John Wiley and Sons, 1985. [19] Turtle H. and W. B. Croft. “Efficient Probabilistic Inference for Text Retrieval,” Proceedings of RIAO 3, 1991. [20] Wong, S. K. M. and Y. Y. Yao. “A Probability Dis-tribution Model for Information Retrieval” Informa-tion Processing and Management, v. 25 no. 1 pp. 39-53, 1989. [21] Yamron, J. “Topic Detection and Tracking Segmen-tation Task” In proceedings of The Topic Detection and Tracking Workshop, Oct. 1997. (221 Zelen, M. and N. Severo. “Probability Func-tions” Handbook of Mathematical Functions. M. Abramowitz and I. A. Stegun ed. National Bureau of Standards Applied Mathematics Series No. 55. 1964.
