---
url: https://www.academia.edu/66144263/Why_Johnny_Cant_Blow_the_Whistle_Identifying_and_Reducing_Usability_Issues_in_Anonymity_Systems
title: Why Johnny Can't Blow the Whistle: Identifying and Reducing Usability Issues in Anonymity Systems
fetched_at: 2026-05-30T17:27:20
content_hash: sha1:ac08e481f531f9afd4280e4127f6e9a9e24223ce
extractor: trafilatura
---

# Why Johnny Can't Blow the Whistle: Identifying and Reducing Usability Issues in Anonymity Systems

2014, Proceedings 2014 Workshop on Usable Security

[https://doi.org/10.14722/USEC.2014.23022](https://doi.org/10.14722/USEC.2014.23022)

…

10 pages

#### Sign up for access to the world's latest research

## Abstract

Tor is one of the most widely used anonymity networks in the world. The anonymity provided to any individual Tor user is a function of the total number of Tor users. Adoption of anonymity tools, including Tor, can be hindered by a lack of usability. Therefore, enhancing Tor's usability and making it easier for more people to use Tor successfully increases security for all Tor users. To enhance Tor usability we begin by identifying stop-points which may act as barriers to using the Tor Browser Bundle (TBB). We suggest changes based on our analysis of these stop-points. To follow through, in our second study we test whether the changes we recommended to the Tor Project are effective in increasing usability, and find a significant decrease in stop-points across the board. Based on these studies, we both suggest new design heuristics appropriate for improving the usability of anonymity systems and identify design heuristics which are particularly salient in the design of anonymity systems. Permission to freely reproduce all or part of this paper for noncommercial purposes is granted provided that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Reproduction for commercial purposes is strictly prohibited without the prior written consent of the Internet Society, the first-named author (for reproduction of an entire paper only), and the author's employer if the paper was prepared within the scope of employment.

## Related papers

[Facilitating the Adoption of Tor by Focusing on a Promising Target Group](https://www.academia.edu/53292483/Facilitating_the_Adoption_of_Tor_by_Focusing_on_a_Promising_Target_Group)

Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 2009

The technology for anonymous communication has been thoroughly researched. But despite the existence of several protection services, a business model for anonymous web surfing has not emerged as of today. One possibility to stimulate adoption is to facilitate it in a specific subnet. The idea is to identify a promising target group which has a substantial benefit from adopting the technology and to facilitate the adoption within that target group. We examine the feasibility of this approach for anonymity services. We identify a potential target group-consumers of pornographic online material-and empirically validate their suitability by conducting a traffic analysis. We also discuss several business models for anonymity services.

[Shedding Light on the Dark Corners of the Internet: A Survey of Tor Research](https://www.academia.edu/36378999/Shedding_Light_on_the_Dark_Corners_of_the_Internet_A_Survey_of_Tor_Research)

Anonymity services have seen high growth rates with increased usage in the past few years. Among various services, Tor is one of the most popular peer-to-peer anonymizing service. In this survey paper, we summarize, analyze, classify and quantify 26 years of research on the Tor network. Our research shows that 'security' and 'anonymity' are the most frequent keywords associated with Tor research studies. Quantitative analysis shows that the majority of research studies on Tor focus on 'deanonymization' the design of a breaching strategy. The second most frequent topic is analysis of path selection algorithms to select more resilient paths. Analysis shows that the majority of experimental studies derived their results by deploying private testbeds while others performed simulations by developing custom simulators. No consistent parameters have been used for Tor performance analysis. The majority of authors performed throughput and latency analysis.

[A Study of Usability-aware Network Trace Anonymization](https://www.academia.edu/22054346/A_Study_of_Usability_aware_Network_Trace_Anonymization)

— The publication and sharing of network trace data is a critical to the advancement of collaborative research among various entities, both in government, private sector, and academia. However, due to the sensitive and confidential nature of the data involved, entities have to employ various anonymization techniques to meet legal requirements in compliance with confidentiality policies. Nevertheless, the very composition of network trace data makes it a challenge when applying anonymization techniques. On the other hand, basic application of microdata anonymization techniques on network traces is problematic and does not deliver the necessary data usability. Therefore, as a contribution, we point out some of the ongoing challenges in the network trace anonymization. We then suggest usability-aware anonymization heuristics by employing microdata privacy techniques while giving consideration to usability of the anonymized data. Our preliminary results show that with trade-offs, it might be possible to generate anonymized network traces with enhanced usability, on a case-by-case basis using micro-data anonymization techniques.

[Explaining the Technology Use Behavior of Privacy-Enhancing Technologies: The Case of Tor and JonDonym](https://www.academia.edu/65691012/Explaining_the_Technology_Use_Behavior_of_Privacy_Enhancing_Technologies_The_Case_of_Tor_and_JonDonym)

Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies

Today’s environment of data-driven business models relies heavily on collecting as much personal data as possible. Besides being protected by governmental regulation, internet users can also try to protect their privacy on an individual basis. One of the most famous ways to accomplish this, is to use privacy-enhancing technologies (PETs). However, the number of users is particularly important for the anonymity set of the service. The more users use the service, the more difficult it will be to trace an individual user. There is a lot of research determining the technical properties of PETs like Tor or JonDonym, but the use behavior of the users is rarely considered, although it is a decisive factor for the acceptance of a PET. Therefore, it is an important driver for increasing the user base.We undertake a first step towards understanding the use behavior of PETs employing a mixed-method approach. We conducted an online survey with 265 users of the anonymity services Tor and JonDony...

[An Examination of Tor Technology Based Anonymous Internet](https://www.academia.edu/95882826/An_Examination_of_Tor_Technology_Based_Anonymous_Internet)

InSITE Conference, 2015

The concept of Anonymous Internet is getting traction in the wake of recent privacy related NSA (National Security Agency) privacy allegations. Based on our initial findings, Tor appears to be a solution for this and taking control of the Internet and the User’s privacy. Our study reveals that Tor’s power and future ability to thrive revolves around its expansion. Tor needs to grow in size specifically in nodes as well as in software (Torrenting). With the increase in servers and relays in the system as well as few tweaks including a constant shuffling of servers, the more protected a user would be. We plan to put further research and development efforts in Tor to ensure that Tor becomes a viable source for anonymous Internet as well as popular mainstream browser.

[Practical Vulnerabilities of the Tor Anonymity Network](https://www.academia.edu/143483971/Practical_Vulnerabilities_of_the_Tor_Anonymity_Network)

Fordham University Press eBooks, 2013

Onion routing is a technology designed at the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory to protect the security and privacy of network communications. In particular, Tor, the current widely-used onion routing system, was originally designed to protect intelligence gathering from open sources and to otherwise protect military communications over insecure or public networks, but it is also used by human rights workers, law enforcement officers, abuse victims, ordinary citizens, corporations, journalists, and others. In this article our focus is less on what Tor currently does for its various users and more on what it does not do. Use of Tor for law enforcement and the national security applications that motivated it faces more significant adversaries than most other uses. We discuss some of the types of threats against which Tor currently offers only limited protection and the impacts of these on all classes of users, but especially on those most likely to confront them.

[Shining Light in Dark Places: Understanding the Tor Network](https://www.academia.edu/13965397/Shining_Light_in_Dark_Places_Understanding_the_Tor_Network)

Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 2008

To date, there has yet to be a study that characterizes the usage of a real deployed anonymity service. We present observations and analysis obtained by participating in the Tor network. Our primary goals are to better understand Tor as it is deployed and through this understanding, propose improvements. In particular, we are interested in answering the following questions: (1) How is Tor being used? (2) How is Tor being mis-used? (3) Who is using Tor?

[The onion router: Understanding a privacy enhancing technology community](https://www.academia.edu/116767978/The_onion_router_Understanding_a_privacy_enhancing_technology_community)

Proceedings of the Association for Information Science and Technology, 2016

Internet technologies have made mass surveillance prevalent and much easier to carry out, while at the same time making personal privacy more difficult to protect. The ubiquity of personal data processing has raised public awareness about the infringement of information privacy. To protect users' information privacy, several initiatives have been developed to provide Privacy Enhancing Technologies (PETs). One of the most wellknown PETs is the Onion Router (Tor) network, which provides users with online anonymity. The Tor network is supported by a group of volunteers who contribute their resources to sustain the availability and quality of the service. However, Tor Volunteers may find themselves in a tough spot at times because Tor network is often monitored by law enforcement, which makes this PET community different from any other open-source initiatives. To explore this volunteer community's motivation for providing their services despite the risks, we conducted an online survey. Our study results reveal that one of the main motivations for these volunteers is to advocate and provide privacy for online users. In addition, Tor-relay operators report on their views about anonymous networks, the challenges they face, and how their belief in providing an opportunity for everyone to access information without interference or censorship is a key component of their volunteer participation.

[[email protected]](https://www.academia.edu/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)

[[email protected]](https://www.academia.edu/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)

[[email protected]](https://www.academia.edu/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)

[[email protected]](https://www.academia.edu/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)Abstract—Tor is one of the most widely used anonymity Tor uses onion routing [24] to prevent third parties from networks in the world. The anonymity provided to any individual observing or transparently interjecting themselves into a user’s Tor user is a function of the total number of Tor users. Adoption web activity. The term “onion routing” refers to Tor’s layered of anonymity tools, including Tor, can be hindered by a lack of usability. Therefore, enhancing Tor’s usability and making it encryption, analogous to the layers in an onion, which prevents easier for more people to use Tor successfully increases security third parties (including Tor nodes) from observing the content for all Tor users. To enhance Tor usability we begin by identifying of packets in transit. Tor also prevents the linkage of the source stop-points which may act as barriers to using the Tor Browser and destination of any packet in the Tor network. Of course, Bundle (TBB). We suggest changes based on our analysis of there are attacks that threaten privacy even when using Tor, these stop-points. To follow through, in our second study we test whether the changes we recommended to the Tor Project are including subversion via control of malicious nodes and timing effective in increasing usability, and find a significant decrease attacks. However, the largest challenge facing Tor arguably is in stop-points across the board. Based on these studies, we not timing attacks, but rather the relatively small number of Tor both suggest new design heuristics appropriate for improving users. In terms of providing anonymity, more users is better. the usability of anonymity systems and identify design heuristics As Dingledine and Mathewson [16] point out, there is a which are particularly salient in the design of anonymity systems. strong network effect present in anonymity networks like Tor. In any system like Tor where anonymity is measured as N1 , I. I NTRODUCTION additional users increase the anonymity of the system. The Communicating privately on the Internet is an increasingly concept of k-anonymity [40], which states that anonymity is difficult task. People who want to communicate privately, dependent on the ability of a person being distinguished from such as whistleblowers, dissidents, journalists, patients with at least k - 1 other people, is a related measure. Thus, reducing sensitive health conditions, and/or domestic violence victims usability barriers to the use and adoption of anonymity systems often use anonymity tools to consume online information like Tor increases the anonymity of all users of the system and without revealing their identities to those who might surveil therefore improves the privacy of the entire network. While them. many papers have examined the technical aspects of Tor’s Tor [17] is a widely used anonymity tool that works by security [35], [33], [32] or ways to avoid privacy issues in passing traffic through a series of nodes to obfuscate its source. general purpose software [31], the scholarship on the usability Experts such as Bruce Schneier [1] recommend utilizing Tor of Tor[12] is more limited,as is the usability of security to combat government surveillance. Due to Tor’s nature it and privacy systems, especially anonymity systems in general is impossible to precisely count the number of Tor users. [44], [4]. Our work is further distinguished in that we do not However, conservative estimates [3] show that as of this merely identify usability flaws, but we also suggest solutions, writing (January 2014), upwards of 4 million people are then test these implemented solutions, as well as derive design connecting to the Tor network daily. heuristics for anonymity systems based on our results. Tor can be run in a variety of configurations. Previous work by Clark et al. [12] presented a cognitive walkthrough of Permission to freely reproduce all or part of this paper for noncommercial several types of Tor software and offered a set of suggestions purposes is granted provided that copies bear this notice and the full citation about the most usable version of Tor. Clark et al. found that a on the first page. Reproduction for commercial purposes is strictly prohibited self-contained, simple-to-deploy browser bundle that required without the prior written consent of the Internet Society, the first-named author (for reproduction of an entire paper only), and the author’s employer if the no configuration was the most usable. Clark’s discussion of the paper was prepared within the scope of employment. usability of the Torpark echoed Lederer et al.’s [31] discussion USEC ’14, 23 February 2014, San Diego, CA, USA of common privacy pitfalls consisting of common mistakes Copyright 2014 Internet Society, ISBN 1-891562-37-1 http://dx.doi.org/10.14722/usec.2014.23022 present in the design of software for non-experts. For example, the pitfall “Inhibiting established practice” may be relevant II. R ELATED W ORK to general purpose browsers, but since most users do not There are three bodies of literature that inform this work: have established practices for use of anonymity systems, they laboratory evaluation of usability (particularly for security have no prior knowledge to bring to bear. Lederer et al. and privacy), privacy-enhancing technologies, and delay tol- noted the pitfalls of “emphasizing configuration over action” erance/decision making. and “lacking coarse grained control” in their work. The Tor Browser Bundle’s (TBB) initial design performs well in both A. Usability and Usable Security of these areas. The TBB requires no configuration and simply Usability design heuristics predate the field of usable secu- requires a user to unzip a binary to run the bundle, thus rity by many years. Molich and Nielsen [34] wrote a widely avoiding these major pitfalls. cited set of design heuristics for human-computer interaction. Later, Lenderer et al. [31] described a set of “privacy pitfalls” Clark et al.’s results suggested that Torpark, a Firefox variant to be avoided when designing general purpose software. with Tor incorporated into the browser, was the most usable Starting in the late 1980s [28] and throughout the 1990s [45] instantiation of Tor. Subsequent to Clark et al.’s study, the many of the seminal works on user-centered security were pub- Tor Project later released an official TBB, which contains lished. Whitten and Tygar’s “Why Johnny Can’t Encrypt” [44] a standalone Firefox variant with Tor built in. However, no described a cognitive walkthrough and lab-based usability subsequent studies until now have examined its usability. test examining the usability of PGP 5.0. Whitten and Tygar Our work complements the existing work on improving the concluded that the usability of security software requires a usability of Tor and extends it by identifying “stop-points” in different standard of usability than other software. Specifically, the installation and use of the TBB. Stop-points are places they suggest that it is necessary for users to be aware of in an interface where a user may find themselves facing the tasks they need to perform, are able to successfully a requirement for user action such that the user is unable perform said tasks without making dangerous errors, and are to proceed [20]. However, a stop-point does not necessarily comfortable enough with a security interface to continue using prevent a user from going forward — any point at which the it. The major issues Whitten and Tygar noted are lack of user is going forward, but is confused about the functionality incentive alignment, lack of feedback, and inability to recover or state of the system is also a stop-point. In a previous from errors, also known as the “barn door property”, evoking examination by Whitten et al. [44], stop-points in Pretty Good the futility of lockdown after loss of information. Privacy (PGP) were found to be a result of the assumptions Also in 1999, Adams and Sasse [4] argued that people about the technical expertise of the user; in particular users are not careless with information protection (passwords in were required to understand the concept of cryptographic keys their study), but rather they are rationally allocating their own beyond the metaphorical level. resources. Security requirements that are antithetical to human capacities cannot be met (i.e., choose many passwords impos- In this paper we describe two studies. In Study 1 we evaluate sible to guess and highly random, don’t write them down, stop-points during both the installation and the use of the remember them, and change them often). Similarly, policies TBB. Based on the results of Study 1, the authors identify that conflict with work procedures or prevent completion of changes that could be made to the TBB interface. We then tasks are rejected. hypothesize a set of design recommendations that could be Nearly concurrently, the field of economics of security was applied not only to the TBB but that are also generalizable to studying the issue of incentive alignment. Anderson [5] argued other anonymity systems. The identification of usability issues, that lack of incentive alignment is a core problem in the design and corrsponding suggested changes as described in Study of security technologies, and Camp et al. [9] illustrated that 1 were presented in preliminary form by Norcie et al [36] it is economically rational to underinvest in security in the at the 5th Workshop on Hot Topics in Privacy Enhancing face of significant externalities imposed by proper security Technologies, a non-archival venue dedicated to research in practices. These works all converged on the same point: that progress. if users do not feel that security will provide them utility After study 1 concluded, we then performed a second study (benefit), they will not strive to improve their security. Thus (Study 2), which tests our usability suggestions and verifies we can conclude that simply improving usability will not make that the design recommendations enhanced the usability of the security usable — the developer must align their interface with TBB. users’ incentives. Other analyses of usable security or privacy include Ingle- In the next section we describe related work. Given the sant and Sasse, who found that while individuals do in fact care breadth of the domains on which we draw, these descriptions about security, password policies are too inflexible to match are necessarily brief. Following this overview of related work, human capabilities [27]. A follow-up study illustrated that we describe the methodology and results of Study 1 followed graphical passwords had similar difficulties [8]. by those of Study 2. We then discuss the findings of both Maxion and Reeder [38] implemented a laboratory exami- studies, offer our conclusions, and finish with a discussion of nation of usability of access control utilizing similar methods. future work. As with our work, they determined that individuals who may 2 believe that they have implemented the correct settings are This simplified interface has the potential to expand Tor to a not consistently correct. Indeed, as few as 25% were able to broader user base. complete a basic ACL task using XPFP. While work on usable security is plentiful, work on usable C. Delay Tolerance and Decision Making anonymity is sparse. As we discuss later in our results section (IV.C), many TBB One of the earliest attempts to improve Tor’s usability was a users reported that the speed of the TBB’s connection was GUI design competition1 sponsored by the Electronic Frontier disappointing. While there is considerable work on mitigating Foundation. This design competition resulted in the Vidalia jitter and latency in Tor (eg. [43]), delay is an inherent price of and Torbutton projects, which (along with Tor and Firefox) Tor. Unlike issues such as icon salience, which was remedied serve as integral components in what would become the Tor by a quick change to the user interface by the Tor Project, there Browser Bundle. is no easy fix for browser lag in an anonymity network like Also, it should be noted that a runner up in the competition Tor. Due to the nature of how anonymity networks function — called Foxtor [39] correctly pointed out that users may have passing traffic through a series of nodes — there will always issues knowing whether they are currently connected to Tor. be delays. As pointed out by Köpsell [29], decreasing latency As mentioned earlier, based on results from a cognitive in an anonymity network increases adoption of said system walkthrough of several early Tor interfaces, Clark et al. (and, conversely, increased latency produces an equal drop-off concluded in 2007 that Torpark (a self-contained browser in user adoption.) bundle similar to the TBB our lab study evaluates) was If it is not technically possible to eliminate latency, the the most usable option for novice Tor users [12]. Another next logical solution is to reduce the perception of latency. related preliminary, non-archival report examined usability To understand how to convince users not to abandon Tor, we issues in the TBB [36], but did not empirically test their must look at the literature on delay tolerance and decision recommendations. making. Thus, the fundamental challenges of security and privacy Hertwig et al. described the effects of “framing” on decision from a human-centered perspective are that individuals must making [25]. The researchers found that when given a descrip- be motivated to and capable of adopting the technology. tion of a set of options, along with their associated proba- Motivation must address rational investment, as well as the bilities, study participants overweighed rare events. However, heuristics and biases of human decision-making [23]. Our when participants made decisions based on past experience, investigation in usability of Tor is grounded in these previous the participants underweighted rare events. This finding has works. Moving on, we will discuss works from the domain of relevance to security decisions, since most users make security privacy-enhancing technologies (PETS). decisions based on prior experience. For example, if a user has never experienced a negative result from clicking an e- B. Privacy-Enhancing Technologies mail attachment, they will underweight the risk that an email The second significant domain of related work is that of attachment could contain malicious code. PETS. The idea of passing an encrypted message between se- Security decisions, like all other decisions, are subject to the ries of intermediate nodes was first discussed by Chaum [11]. framing effect, a cognitive bias first described by Tversky and The classic Chaumian mixnet is similar to the Tor network in Kahneman [41]. The researchers found that study participants that each packet is subject to a series of encrypting operations were risk seeking when it came to potential gains, but risk so that no node in the network can determine both the initiator averse to potential losses. For example, when deciding on and target of a communication. Similarly, each message has whether to vaccinate a large population against a deadly a theoretical requirement for three hops. However, in mix disease, the decision can be framed as a potential gain (citing networks packets are delayed and reordered (thus preventing the number of people to be saved by the vaccine), or as timing attacks at the expense of a latency.) a potential loss (citing the number of people who would There have been several high anonymity, high latency sys- “certainly die” if the vaccine was not administered). While the tems such as MixMinion [14], Tarzan, [22], and Freenet [13]. basic probabilities remained the same for both scenarios, study However, none of these platforms ever gained popularity. In- participants were much more likely to choose vaccination deed, many of them never went beyond laboratory demonstra- when it is framed in terms of potential gain (lives saved). tion projects. Onion routing was first presented in 1998 [37], Thus, we theorized when performing our studies that fram- but Tor was not invented until 2004 [17]. Before 2000 the ing can assist us in helping users make better security deci- majority of anonymizing systems that were used in practice sions. This hypothesis is supported by previous literature. For were single-hop proxies, for example, Anonymizer [7]. For example, Egelman et al. [19] examined whether users would cryptographic PETs, Tor is unique in its acceptability and tolerate security delays in a Mechanical Turk task. Turkers adoption, with the number of users in the hundreds of thou- were told that they were testing a new web-based PDF viewer. sands. The latest instantiation of Tor has usability as a design Egelman et al. found that users were much more likely to cheat goal; the TBB combines Tor and the web browser one package. on the Mechanical Turk task when presented with either a non- security explanation for the delay, such as a simple loading bar, 1 http://tor.hermetix.org/gui/index.html or a vague security explanation, such as changing the loading 3 bar to simply read “Performing security scan.” Conversely, “very familiar”). While 84% (21/25) of users had heard of Tor, users were less likely to cheat when given a concrete security the users were by no means Tor experts. When asked “How explanation — that online documents often contain viruses familiar are you with Tor?”, users responded with an average and that the PDF reader was performing a virus scan. of 2.13 on a 7-point scale. Users were slightly more familiar Moving on, we will discuss the methodology and results with computer security. When asked “How familiar are you for our two studies, followed by an overall discussion of these with computer security?”, users reported an average of 4.5 on results, closing with conclusions drawn from them and plans a 7-point scale. for future work. B. Study 1 Limitations III. S TUDY 1: I DENTIFYING U SABILITY I SSUES Like many usability studies, participants in this study are A. Study 1 Methodology Overview not perfectly representative of the population as a whole. Our We recruited 25 undergraduates from a large North Ameri- participants are more educated, more familiar with computer can university for Study 1. Students were given lab credit for security, and more male than the general population. Normally, participating in the study. Students who were not comfortable in research we strive to find representative users rather than participating in the study were given the option instead to write expert users, because experts have experience that may predis- a one-page essay on Tor’s basic functionality. The entire study pose them to being able to use a system that non-expert users is IRB approved. may find difficult to use. In this study, however, our partici- For Study 1 all participants were seated at a computer pants were generally computer savvy and specifically security running Windows 7 and given an instruction sheet, as well savvy. While this can be viewed as a potential limitation of as a short questionnaire where they were instructed to record the study, it may also be viewed as an advantage. Tor users, any usability issues they encountered throughout the study. We having sought out an anonymity system, are likely to have also captured users’ on-screen actions using screen capture more expertise than an average person. Second, we can expect software. The instruction sheet that was handed out provided that any difficulties experienced by the expert users would also users with the URL for the Tor Project (https://torproject.org) be experienced by non-experts (indeed, the same argument is and instructed users to download the latest version of the TBB, made in many seminal works on usable security (e.g. [44]). run the TBB, and use the TBB to download a new desktop Therefore, while this participant population is limited in that background for their lab machine. 2 we will likely not identify all usability issues with the TBB Prior to beginning the study participants were informed that the population of potential users may encounter, we will that the study was a usability evaluation and that we were likely uncover the most problematic usability issues. evaluating the technology and not their abilities. Participants With respect to ecological validity of task, because normal were also informed that the instructions they received were users of Tor are aware that they are engaging in a security purposefully not step-by-step instructions and may therefore task, we did not attempt to hide the nature of the task from seem vague. If they were unclear how to proceed at any time, participants, as might be done in, for example, a study on the participants were instructed to raise their hand so that the anti-phishing techniques. researcher could assist them. Participants were also given the There are a few other small limitations to this study. First, definition of “stop-points” presented earlier in this paper. The our sample was skewed heavily towards undergraduate males. participants were told that the lab was designed to find stop- While there is evidence that privacy concerns differ along points and that participants should raise their hands if they gender lines [26], the authors are not aware of any evidence encountered a stop-point that they could not proceed beyond. that usability issues in security differ along gender lines. Upon encountering a stop-point the researcher would then ask For example, males and females fall equally for phishing the participant to note this stop-point on their questionnaire. A attacks [15]. However, this skewed gender ratio remains a post-task survey queried participants about whether or not they small limitation. Additionally, our sample sizes, (N = 25 for encountered any issues during installation and use. Participants Study 1, N = 27 for Study 2), could have been larger. Both of who raised their hands during the study were instructed to note these factors may affect the generalizability of our results. their issue on their post-task survey and then advised how to C. Free-Response Coding Methodology proceed past the stop-point. Study 1 Demographics: In addition to collecting data on As mentioned previously, in addition to demographic ques- stop-points, our exit survey also collected demographic infor- tions, we asked participants to respond to the free-response mation from all participants. Participant ages ranged from 20 question: “Did you encounter any problems when installing or to 37, with a median of 22.7 and a mode of 21. Eighty-eight using the Tor Browser Bundle?” In this section we will detail percent were male (22/25). Participants were asked if they had how we moved from a set of free-response answers to a set heard of Tor. The users were also asked to rank their familiarity of mutually exclusive categories for usability and then discuss with Tor, as well as their familiarity with computer security on our methodology for assigning these responses to categories. a 1-to-7 scale (1 meaning “not at all familiar” and 7 meaning Category Generation: In Study 1 the 25 study participants reported a total of 41 stop-points in their answers to the free- 2 TBB v2.2.35-7.1 at the time of Study 1 response question. Some participants reported multiple issues. 4 Two coders independently coded the answers to these ques- TABLE I tions, assigning each complaint to one of of seven mutually T YPE OF T OR PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED , PRESENTED AS PERCENTAGE OF USERS EXPERIENCING AN ISSUE . S OME USERS EXPERIENCED MULTIPLE exclusive categories. Categories were generated post-hoc after ISSUES , THUS CATEGORIES DO NOT NECESSARILY SUM TO 100%.“*” a holistic evaluation of the free-response questions. These INDICATES STATISTICAL SIGNIFICANCE . categories were subsequently used to code the responses from Category % % p-value t-value df Study 2. The categories of usability issues we discovered were Study Study as follows. 1 2 Popup N/A 44% < .001 4.385 50 A.) Long launch time: The user noticed a lag between click- Peeves* ing the icon to start the TBB, and the TBB window Long launch 50% 0% < .001 -5.303 50 opening. time* B.) Browsing Delay: Browsing through the TBB had a no- Browsing 24% 19% .346 -.475 50 delay ticeable lag. Window 16% 0% < .001 -2.224 50 C.) Download Clarity: User wasn’t sure where on website discrim- to download the TBB. inability* Archive 16% 4% .002 -1.507 50 D.) Window Discriminability: User wasn’t sure which win- Confusion* dow was the TBB and which was a normal browser. Icon salience 12% 7% .271 -.552 50 E.) Archive confusion: Problems unzipping the TBB pack- Security 12% 0% < .001 -1.882 50 Measure age. Confusion* F.) Icon Salience: Problems finding the icon to start the file Download 12% 0% < .001 -1.882 50 (“Start Tor Browser”). Clarity* G.) Security Measure Confusion: Security measures taken by the TBB (such as redirecting from Google CAPTCHA to DuckDuckGo) confused users. IV. S TUDY 2: V ERIFYING O UR R ECOMMENDATIONS Interrater Reliability: To ensure coder agreement was not A. Implementing our Recommendations due to random chance, final intercoder agreement was cal- culated using Cohen’s Kappa [10] for Study 1 and using Our second study aimed to verify that the issues we iden- Fleiss’ Kappa for Study 2 [21]. Both of these formulas are tified were solved by the design recommendations we made. methods of calculating observer agreement of categorical data After Study 1, the Tor Project made several changes to the that accounts for agreements due to chance. We used Cohen’s TBB based on our preliminary results. For example, the Tor Kappa for Study 1 because we only had two coders. For Study developers reduced the amount of time it took for the TBB to 2, additional research team members were able to assist with launch in order to reduce complaints of “long launch time.” coding, necessitating a measure of reliability that allowed for The Tor developers also created a new Tor Browser Bundle multiple coders (i.e., Fleiss’ Kappa). icon in order to solve problems with window discriminability. Overall intercoder agreement between the two coders for One issue that was not addressed by these changes was Tor’s Study 1 was Cohen’s Kappa = .72, and overall intercoder speed. One of the main issues reported in study 1 were com- agreement between the four coders for Study 2 was Fleiss’ plaints about the TBB’s latency. While there is considerable Kappa = 0.82. Kappas of .61 - .80 are considered ‘substan- work on mitigating jitter and latency in Tor (eg. [43]), delay is tial’, and kappas between .80 and 1 are considered ‘almost an inherent price of Tor, and Tor has traditionally been slower perfect’ [30], showing that in both studies coding agreement than a typical Internet connection [18]. Building on Egelman was reliable. After the first pass of coding, there was 100% et al.’s work with Mechanical Turk users [19], the authors coder agreement. hypothesized that when users are given realistic expectations In the next section we will detail the prevalence of each about Tor’s speed, they will not attribute this lack of speed of category of usability issue we identified. We discuss the to an error. In fact, this type of information may instead help design implications of these findings, and present a set of users develop a more accurate mental model. Thus, instead of design heuristics based on them in the Discussion section. becoming frustrated, users may instead picture their packets traversing several nodes as they wait, thus gaining a sense of security from the delays sometimes introduced by Tor. D. Study 1 Results We hypothesized that users of Tor are likely willing to Results from Study 1 are shown in Table I. Sixteen users sacrifice some speed for better privacy. Simply taking steps (out of 25) reported a total of 41 individual issues; some to inform users that the TBB may take a while to open and users reported multiple issues. As we can see from Table that such delay is normal could substantially alter a user’s I, the majority of the issues users encountered in Study 1 perception of the TBB. As Molich et al. point out with their centered around launch time, browser delay, and window feedback principle [34], the typical user assumes that if a discriminability. program fails to respond within a certain time frame, that Next we discuss the methodology and results of Study 2, either a process has run in the background, or an error has then discuss the implications of both studies. occurred. By providing an informative dialog instructing users 5 to wait for the browser window to open, the confusion Tor users experience can be avoided. To test this hypothesis, the authors created a browser extension which informed users when delays occurred, along with a message that such delays were normal and a sign Tor was operating securely. If a delay greater than 10 seconds was detected, our custom extension displayed a warning stating that the delay was normal and was in fact a property of Tor’s security. Users in our study were directed to a locally hosted mirror of the Tor project, which, aside from having it’s windows zip file replaced with our custom version, matched the Tor Project’s page in every manner. Using the updated TBB and our custom extension, we Fig. 1. Example of pop up informing users in Study 2 that a delay has conducted a second study to test whether the changes we occurred recommended, as well as our browser extension, would indeed increase the usability of the Tor Browser Bundle. we added to the TBB in Study 2 informing users when delays B. Study 2 Methodology occurred. This extension was not present in Study 1, hence no users reported issues with it in that study. We recruited 27 undergraduate students for Study 2 from the same course (but a subsequent semester) and followed Referring back to Table I, we can note that overall, there was the same study procedure using the same machines with the a numerical decrease across the board in usability issues during following exceptions: the instruction sheet provided the URL Study 2. Notably, the reductions in “Window Discriminability” for a locally hosted Tor mirror that served our own version and “Long Launch Time” were both statistically significant, of the Tor Browser Bundle v2.3.25-2 with a custom extension implying that changes to the TBB increased usability. that detected delays and informed the user that these delays While the reduction in Browsing Delay was not statistically were normal. Our hypothesis was that reframing lag as normal significant, 60% (3/5) of the users expressing negative opinions would make users more tolerant of it. Figure 1 shows a sample about browsing delays also complained about usability issues pop-up. with our warning pop-ups. Specifically, these three users all We then proceeded to code the responses from participants noted that the number of pop-ups (5 in one instance) seemed in Study 2 in the same manner as Study 1, with one difference: excessive. Users may have perceived the lag caused by clearing interrater reliability for Study 2 was calculated using Fleiss’s these pop ups as latency on the part of the Tor Browser. Kappa [21], as described above. In Study 2, we also added the Now that we have established what problems have been category ‘Popup Peeves’ to capture complaints directed at the experienced by our participants in both Study 1 and Study pop-ups generated by our custom browser extension. Since our 2, we will discuss the implications of these findings in our extension was not present in Study 1, Table I does not show discussion section. any popup peeves for Study 1. V. D ISCUSSION Study 2 Demographics: Similar demographic information was collected from all users on the second exit survey. Study Based on our results from Study 1, we hypothesized a 2’s sample was skewed even more heavily male than Study set of design implications for the TBB, as well as a set of 1 - 3% (1/27) were female. Participants ranged in age from general design recommendations for all anonymity systems. 20–32, with a mean of 22. Then based on those suggestions, several changes were made Our second study’s population had similar familiarity with to the TBB. We will detail those changes, and then reflect on Tor and information security to Study 1’s participants. When how these changed the TBB browsing experience. asked “How familiar are you with Tor?”, users responded with As we can see from Table I, a higher percentage of people an average of 2.3 on a 7-point scale. Users were slightly more in Study 2 reported no problems than in Study 1, indicating familiar with computer security. When asked “How familiar an increase in usability. Additionally, we observed a decrease are you with computer security?”, users reported an average in the total number of problems reported (41 in Study 1 to 34 of 3.9 on a 7-point scale. in Study 2), even though we had more participants in Study Moving on, we will elucidate the results specific to Study 2, 2 than Study 1. then in the discussion section we will discuss the implications of these results. A. Issues and Solutions After Study 1 was concluded, we had collected 41 issues C. Study 2 Results from 25 users, as described in Table I — with some users Twenty-seven users reported a total of 34 individual issues. listing multiple usability issues. As described in our methods It should be noted that the category “Pop Up Peeves” was section, we then coded these responses into mutually exclusive added in study 2, and refers to complaints about the messages categories. We elucidate these issues below, along with our 6 Fig. 3. The new Tor Browser Bundle icon. low, and if several tabs experienced delays in rapid succession, multiple pop-ups could occur for the same delay. Even so, we did see still a slight reduction in complaints related to browser delay when using our extension. Furthermore, as noted in our results, 60% of users experiencing browsing delay complaints also had issues with excessive pop-up warnings. In the future, capping the number of pop-ups to only once per browsing Fig. 2. Vidalia reporting a connection to the Tor network, even though the session may further eliminate these complaints. Tor Browser window has not yet opened. Despite this small setback, our results were very promising. Note that there no increases in usability issues in any category hypothesized solutions. We then reflect on the efficacy of the (and statistically significant decreases in several categories.) solutions implemented for each issue in turn. Issue 3: Window Discriminability: Several users in Study Issue 1: Long Launch Time: Many users noticed a long 1 (many of whom also experienced a long launch time) had delay between clicking “Start Tor Browser Bundle” and the trouble discriminating which window was the TBB and which TBB opening. A typical scenario would be that the user would was a normal browser window. It should be noted that the click on “Start Tor Browser Bundle”. At this point, Vidalia (the TBB is, at its heart, just a rebranded portable Firefox build. graphical controller for Tor, an interface which confused users) Study 1 tested TBB v2.2.35-7.1, which used the same icon appeared. Many users incorrectly assumed after 30 seconds or as a normal Firefox installation. Thus, if a user had Firefox so that all their Internet traffic was anonymized and proceeded open prior to opening the TBB, it was extremely easy to use to open Firefox or Internet Explorer. a non-Torified window when performing study tasks since the As mentioned earlier, the lag between Vidalia opening and icons were identical. Confusing a non-Torified window for a the browser window opening had been significantly reduced Torified window could result in a user believing his or her for Study 2. As Table I shows, this led to statistically sig- web traffic is anonymous when it is not. The seriousness of nificant reduction in complaints about long launch time. We this confusion is worth pointing out. If a whistleblower is also theorize that this may have contributed to a statistically attempting to communicate with a journalist and believes her significant decrease in complaints about window discriminabil- Internet traffic is anonymous when it is not, the consequences ity, since users in Study 1 sometimes were confused by a long could range from jail time in some countries to physical harm launch time, believing that all Internet traffic was anonymized, in others. and then opened a non-anonymized browser window to at- After Study 1 the Tor Project changed their program icon tempt the task. from the Firefox icon to its own custom icon. As noted in Table Furthermore, based in part on preliminary results from I, changing the TBB’s icon caused a large and statistically Study 1 shared with several Tor developers, the Tor Project significant drop in complaints about window discriminability. began to develop a new design of the TBB which would Issue 4: Icon Salience: Some users were unclear how to eliminate the need for Vidalia, leaving just one window. This start the TBB, or thought that the TBB would start automati- change went live in TBB version 3.0, released in alpha in cally, not realizing that the “Start Tor Browser Bundle” would June 20133 . While our study occurred prior to this change, open an anonymized browser. This could lead to serious errors, we believe that eliminating Vidalia will reduce complaints of such as when one participant assumed after unzipping the TBB both “Long launch time” and “Window discriminability” even that all subsequent traffic was anonymous and proceeded to further. attempt to complete the study tasks using an unanonymized Issue 2: Browsing Delay: Many users noted that browsing system browser. with Tor was slower than browsing over a typical Internet To solve this issue we proposed that the TBB could place connection. As mentioned earlier, some latency is an inherent an icon on the desktop/dock. The TBB could note at some price of Tor. However, our extension led to a numerical point between downloading and installation that the user must decrease in complaints of “browsing delay.” click “Start Tor Browser Bundle” to begin. Alternatively, the Our extension could be improved. Users complained about TBB could launch automatically after installation. the number of pop-ups they experienced using the TBB with Neither the Tor project nor our researchers made any our custom extension. Our delay threshold may have been too changes to attempt to mitigate this issue, mainly because so few people (12% in Study 1) experienced this issue. The 3 https://blog.torproject.org/blog/announcing-tor-browser-bundle-30alpha1 authors’ efforts were centered on a cluster of three usability 7 issues: long launch time, window discriminability, and brows- B. Design Heuristics For Anonymity Systems ing delay, which together made up a majority (66%) of the In the previous subsection we described seven stop-points usability issues reported. and potential solutions based on the usability issues discovered Issue 5: Download Clarity: Some users were unsure which in Study 1, and the verification that our suggested fixes package to download and/or accidentally downloaded the reduced these issues in Study 2. Each design recommendation wrong operating system’s version of the TBB. was discussed in the context of the coding category that We proposed that the download page could provide larger documented it. We found that vast majority of the issues were logos for each operating system (as opposed to simply stating created by long launch times, browsing delay, and window the OS in text), along with larger, bolded text describing which discriminability. operating system a given package is for. As with Issue 4 our Based on our experience hypothesizing and testing the researchers were focused on the cluster of issues that caused a above issues and solutions in Study 1 and the decrease in majority of usability issues and thus did not make any changes usability issues seen in Study 2, we can now arrive at a set to the Tor project’s download page when establishing our of general design recommendations that generalize to other mirror. anonymity systems. Issue 6: Security Measure Confusion: Some security mea- Heuristic 1: Installation precedes operation: Even the most sures that the TBB takes, such as redirecting from Google well-designed user interface is useless if the user never reaches searches to DuckDuckGo, and disabling certain types of active it. The authors of anonymity software should strive to assist content confused users in Study 1 who did not understand why users who are installing the software. Download pages should a given action had been redirected or a pop-up box had been try and make educated guesses as to what operating system a generated. user is running, and provide users with simple heuristics for As a result of our results in Study 1 suggested that prior determining their operating system. For example, next to a link to performing any redirects, the TBB could provide a jargon- to download the Windows version of an anonymity software free explanation of why a security measure is being taken. package, the page could state ”If your computer is not a Mac, For example, before redirecting to DuckDuckGo, a pop up you probably want this version.” could appear and state: “Google keeps a record of your history. Heuristic 2: Ensure users are aware of trade-offs: Today’s Using DuckDuckGo will allow you to search anonymously.” users have come of age in a time of widespread broadband Since decision science and the field of risk communication adoption. Delays longer than a few seconds may cause users are vast, complex fields, and because security measure con- to question whether their connection is faulty. While ideally fusion was a small issue (present in 12% of complaints in anonymity software should strive to deliver content with as Study 1), we chose to save the rewording of security dialogs little latency as possible, users of anonymity software are for future work. No users experienced this issue in Study 2. usually willing to trade speed for privacy. However, the Issue 7: Archive Confusion: Some users expected a guided software must provide feedback to the user to let them know ‘wizard’ installer and did not realize they had to click on “Start that a given operation has not failed. Just as a user is willing Tor Browser Bundle” once unzipping had occurred, leading to to accept a slower connection via a crowded Internet cafe wifi confusion. network, a user is willing to accept a delay in exchange for This issue is not necessarily a problem with Tor, but as anonymous communication. Informing users that delays are we discuss later in our design heuristics, installation of the normal may increase tolerance of delays, but these messages TBB is a prerequisite for using the TBB. While the TBB must be limited, or they may become a design flaw in their developers cannot control the usability of the host operating own right. system, we suggested that a prominent note could be made Heuristic 3: Say why, not how: Sometimes an anonymity on the download page that users will need to unzip the TBB system must take a security measure, such as redirecting away prior to using it. from a site which may leak identity information, or disabling Since this was a minor issue (effecting 12% of Study 1 browser features such as cookies or Javascript. Users desire to participants) we did not attempt to change the Tor download be told why a given security precaution is being taken. These page on our mirror, instead directing our efforts to more explanations should avoid technical jargon and use real-world serious usability issues such as “Browsing Delay’”. metaphors whenever possible. Users who wish to understand No users experienced “Archive Confusion” in Study 2 at a deeper level should be given the option to drill down to (despite no changes in the UI occurring.) Furthermore, after a more detailed technical explanation. Study 2 occurred, but prior to submission of this paper, the Tor Heuristic Examples: We can generalize our heuristics to Project released TBB 3.0, which now provides a wizard-style any system that allows users to ‘hide in the crowd’ and which graphic installer (along with several other improvements.) This aims to maximize adoption of a given anonymity system by design change occurred after preliminary results from Study minimizing user irritants. 1 were shared with members of the Tor Project. While we For example, the anonymous operating system TAILS [2] did not examine this change in our study, based on a brief requires users to create a bootable live USB or live DVD, cognitive walkthrough of the installer, the authors feel that which may hinder adoption by less savvy individuals — recall said installer will help reduce user confusion. that participants in Study 1 occasionally expected a “guided 8 wizard” installation process. Such users may also find the to display a notice that lag is occurring, and how often per idea of creating bootable DVDs/USBs as confusing and/or browsing session to display such warnings could have their unhelpful. optimal values determined experimentally. Along similar lines, traditional single hop proxy software is Finally, while Study 1 identified several complaints about equally confusing. Users must seek out list of proxy addresses, security warnings (as reflected in the category “Security Warn- and navigate confusing browser dialogs in order to tunnel their ing Confusion” in Table 1), further work could be dedicated to traffic through said proxy. In the event that the proxy goes examining how to redesign the various warning dialogs present down (a common occurrence), users must navigate a series of in the Tor Browser Bundle to nudge more clearly non-expert extremely technical errors and dialog boxes to fix the issue. users towards safe decisions. VI. C ONCLUSIONS VIII. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Based on our studies, we have discovered a number of The research is supported by DHS Contract usability issues in the TBB. As Back et al. succinctly state, N6600112C0137, NSF Grant 1250367, and DARPA ‘‘In anonymity systems usability, efficiency, reliability and cost FA8750-13-2-0023, with additional funding from Google become security objectives because they affect the size of the and Microsoft. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or user base which in turn affects the degree of anonymity it is recommendations expressed in this material are those of the possible to achieve.” [6]. author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the NSF, We noted that long launch time, browsing delay, and DHS, DARPA, Indiana University, Clemson University, ISI, window discriminability were the issues most often cited by or any other funding organization. participants. Based on these issues we presented a set of The authors would also like to thank Roger Dingledine, three design heuristics to help minimize usability issues in Mike Perry, Tom Lowenthal, and all the other Tor Project anonymity systems. members who provided valuable feedback on early versions We note that “installation precedes operation” — if instal- of this work, and made changes to Tor based on it. lation of an anonymity system frustrates the user, they may R EFERENCES never reach the UI, no matter how well designed it is. We [1] How to remain secure against the nsa - schneier on security. https: also suggested that makers of anonymity systems ensure users //www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2013/09/how to remain s.html. are aware of the speed trade-offs in anonymity systems and [2] Tails: The amnesiac incognito live system. https://tails.boum.org/. [3] Tor project metrics portal: Users. https://metrics.torproject.org/users. set appropriate expectations. With our “Say why, not how.” html. heuristic, we encouraged developers to explain why security [4] A. Adams and M. Sasse. Users are not the enemy. Communications of measures that impact the user experience are taken and that the ACM, 42(12):40–46, 1999. [5] R. Anderson. Why information security is hard-an economic perspective. these explanations avoid technical jargon. In Computer Security Applications Conference, (ACSAC). IEEE, 2001. Finally, based on our results in Study 2, we validated our [6] A. Back, U. Möller, and A. Stiglic. Traffic analysis attacks and trade-offs design heuristics, showing that by applying these three design in anonymity providing systems. In Information Hiding, pages 245–257. Springer, 2001. heuristics, developers can help make the TBB (or any similar [7] J. Boyan. The anonymizer. Computer-Mediated Communication (CMC) anonymity system) more usable and thus more secure. Magazine, 1997. Taken together, these recommendations may improve the [8] S. Brostoff, P. Inglesant, and M. Sasse. Evaluating the usability and security of a graphical one-time pin system. In Proceedings of the 24th usability of Tor and other anonymity systems, which may BCS Interaction Specialist Group Conference. British Computer Society, improve the security and privacy of online communication 2010. for a variety of users including journalists, whistleblowers, [9] L. J. Camp and C. Wolfram. Pricing security. In Economics of Information Security, pages 17–34. Springer, 2004. and any others who wish to communicate anonymously. Even [10] J. Carletta. Squibs and discussions assessing agreement on classification small changes in the usability of such a system have the tasks: The kappa statistic. Computational linguistics, 22(2):249–254, potential to have a disproportionately large impact in terms of 1996. [11] D. Chaum. Untraceable electronic mail, return addresses, and digital potential consequences for a user. Where the consequences of pseudonyms. Communications of the ACM, 24(2):84–90, 1981. poor usability of most consumer software may be frustration, [12] J. Clark, P. Van Oorschot, and C. Adams. Usability of anonymous additional work, and or stress, the potential consequences of web browsing: An examination of tor interfaces and deployability. In Proceedings of the 3rd symposium on Usable privacy and security, pages lack of usability of anonymity systems may lead to censorship, 41–51. ACM, 2007. surveillance, and in very extreme cases, physical harm. [13] I. Clarke, O. Sandberg, B. Wiley, and T. Hong. Freenet: A distributed anonymous information storage and retrieval system. In Designing VII. F UTURE W ORK Privacy Enhancing Technologies, pages 46–66. Springer, 2001. [14] G. Danezis, R. Dingledine, and N. Mathewson. Mixminion: Design of While this work examines a number of possible changes a type iii anonymous remailer protocol. In Security and Privacy, 2003. to the TBB (and other anonymity systems), it leaves several Proceedings. 2003 Symposium on, pages 2–15. IEEE, 2003. [15] R. Dhamija, J. D. Tygar, and M. Hearst. Why phishing works. In open research questions. For example, the researchers did not Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human Factors in computing attempt to redesign security warnings that appear during the systems. ACM, 2006. use of the TBB. [16] R. Dingledine and N. Mathewson. Anonymity loves company: Usability and the network effect. In Proceedings of the Fifth Workshop on the Second, many design decisions in our delay-detecting ex- Economics of Information Security (WEIS 2006), Cambridge, UK, June, tension were not empirical. Variables such as the threshold 2006. 9 [17] R. Dingledine, N. Mathewson, and P. Syverson. Tor: the second- [32] K. Loesing, S. J. Murdoch, and R. Dingledine. A case study on generation onion router. In Proceedings of the 13th conference on measuring statistical data in the Tor anonymity network. In Proceedings USENIX Security Symposium - Volume 13, SSYM’04, pages 21–21, of the Workshop on Ethics in Computer Security Research (WECSR Berkeley, CA, USA, 2004. USENIX Association. 2010), LNCS. Springer, January 2010. [18] R. Dingledine and S. Murdoch. Performance improvements on tor or, [33] P. Mittal, A. Khurshid, J. Juen, M. Caesar, and N. Borisov. Stealthy traf- why tor is slow and what were going to do about it. 2009. fic analysis of low-latency anonymous communication using throughput [19] S. Egelman, A. Acquisti, D. Molnar, C. Herley, N. Christin, and fingerprinting. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM conference on Computer S. Krishnamurthi. Please continue to hold an empirical study on user and Communications Security (CCS 2011), October 2011. tolerance of security delays. 2010. [34] R. Molich and J. Nielsen. Improving a human-computer dialogue. [20] H. Elmore. Designing translucent security: Insights from a usability Communications of the ACM, 33(3):338–348, 1990. evaluation of pgp desktop. Master’s thesis, Indiana University, 2009. [35] S. J. Murdoch and G. Danezis. Low-cost traffic analysis of tor. In [21] J. L. Fleiss and J. Cohen. The equivalence of weighted kappa and the Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, intraclass correlation coefficient as measures of reliability. Educational SP ’05, pages 183–195, Washington, DC, USA, 2005. IEEE Computer and Psychological Measurement, 33(3):613–619, 1973. Society. [22] M. Freedman and R. Morris. Tarzan: A peer-to-peer anonymizing [36] G. Norcie, K. Caine, and L. J. Camp. Eliminating Stop-Points in the network layer. In Proceedings of the 9th ACM conference on Computer Installation and Use of Anonymity Systems: A Usability Evaluation of and communications security, pages 193–206. ACM, 2002. the Tor Browser Bundle. In 5th Workshop on Hot Topics in Privacy [23] V. Garg and J. Camp. Heuristics and biases: Implications for security Enhancing Technologies (HotPETS), 2012. design. Technology and Society Magazine, IEEE, 32(1):73–79, 2013. [37] M. Reed, P. Syverson, and D. Goldschlag. Anonymous connections and [24] D. Goldschlag, M. Reed, and P. Syverson. Onion routing. Communica- onion routing. Selected Areas in Communications, IEEE Journal on, tions of the ACM, 42(2):39–41, 1999. 16(4):482–494, 1998. [25] R. Hertwig, G. Barron, E. Weber, I. Erev, et al. Decisions from [38] R. Reeder and R. Maxion. User interface dependability through goal- experience and the effect of rare events in risky choice. Psychological error prevention. In Dependable Systems and Networks, 2005. DSN science, 15(8):534, 2004. 2005. Proceedings. International Conference on, pages 60–69. Ieee, [26] M. G. Hoy and G. Milne. Gender differences in privacy-related measures 2005. for young adult facebook users. Journal of Interactive Advertising, [39] S. Romanosky and C. Kuo. Foxtor: Anonymous web browsing. Tor 10(2):28–45, 2010. GUI Competition, 2006. [27] P. Inglesant and M. Sasse. The true cost of unusable password policies: [40] L. Sweeney. k-anonymity: A model for protecting privacy. Interna- password use in the wild. In Proceedings of the 28th international tional Journal of Uncertainty, Fuzziness and Knowledge-Based Systems, conference on Human factors in computing systems, pages 383–392. 10(05):557–570, 2002. ACM, 2010. [41] A. Tversky, D. Kahneman, et al. The framing of decisions and the [28] C.-M. Karat. Iterative usability testing of a security application. In psychology of choice. Science, 211(4481):453–458, 1981. Proceedings of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society Annual [42] H. Varian. System reliability and free riding. Economics of Information Meeting, volume 33, pages 273–277. SAGE Publications, 1989. Security, pages 1–15, 2004. [29] S. Köpsell. Low latency anonymous communication–how long are users [43] C. Viecco. Improving Anonymity Networks via End-to-End Design. PhD willing to wait? In Emerging Trends in Information and Communication thesis, Indiana University, 2011. Security, pages 221–237. Springer, 2006. [44] A. Whitten and J. Tygar. Why johnny cant encrypt: A usability [30] J. Landis and G. Koch. The measurement of observer agreement for evaluation of pgp 5.0. In Proceedings of the 8th USENIX Security categorical data. Biometrics, pages 159–174, 1977. Symposium, volume 99, 1999. [31] S. Lederer, I. Hong, K. Dey, and A. Landay. Personal privacy through [45] M. E. Zurko and R. T. Simon. User-centered security. In Proceedings understanding and action: five pitfalls for designers. Personal and of the 1996 workshop on New security paradigms, pages 27–33. ACM, Ubiquitous Computing, 8(6):440–454, 2004. 1996. 10

## References (45)

- How to remain secure against the nsa -schneier on security. https: //www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2013/09/how to remain s.html.
- Tails: The amnesiac incognito live system. https://tails.boum.org/.
- Tor project metrics portal: Users. https://metrics.torproject.org/users. html.
- A. Adams and M. Sasse. Users are not the enemy. Communications of the ACM, 42(12):40-46, 1999.
- R. Anderson. Why information security is hard-an economic perspective. In Computer Security Applications Conference, (ACSAC). IEEE, 2001.
- A. Back, U. Möller, and A. Stiglic. Traffic analysis attacks and trade-offs in anonymity providing systems. In Information Hiding, pages 245-257. Springer, 2001.
- J. Boyan. The anonymizer. Computer-Mediated Communication (CMC) Magazine, 1997.
- S. Brostoff, P. Inglesant, and M. Sasse. Evaluating the usability and security of a graphical one-time pin system. In Proceedings of the 24th BCS Interaction Specialist Group Conference. British Computer Society, 2010.
- L. J. Camp and C. Wolfram. Pricing security. In Economics of Information Security, pages 17-34. Springer, 2004.
- J. Carletta. Squibs and discussions assessing agreement on classification tasks: The kappa statistic. Computational linguistics, 22(2):249-254, 1996.
- D. Chaum. Untraceable electronic mail, return addresses, and digital pseudonyms. Communications of the ACM, 24(2):84-90, 1981.
- J. Clark, P. Van Oorschot, and C. Adams. Usability of anonymous web browsing: An examination of tor interfaces and deployability. In Proceedings of the 3rd symposium on Usable privacy and security, pages 41-51. ACM, 2007.
- I. Clarke, O. Sandberg, B. Wiley, and T. Hong. Freenet: A distributed anonymous information storage and retrieval system. In Designing Privacy Enhancing Technologies, pages 46-66. Springer, 2001.
- G. Danezis, R. Dingledine, and N. Mathewson. Mixminion: Design of a type iii anonymous remailer protocol. In Security and Privacy, 2003. Proceedings. 2003 Symposium on, pages 2-15. IEEE, 2003.
- R. Dhamija, J. D. Tygar, and M. Hearst. Why phishing works. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human Factors in computing systems. ACM, 2006.
- R. Dingledine and N. Mathewson. Anonymity loves company: Usability and the network effect. In Proceedings of the Fifth Workshop on the Economics of Information Security (WEIS 2006), Cambridge, UK, June, 2006.
- R. Dingledine, N. Mathewson, and P. Syverson. Tor: the second- generation onion router. In Proceedings of the 13th conference on USENIX Security Symposium -Volume 13, SSYM'04, pages 21-21, Berkeley, CA, USA, 2004. USENIX Association.
- R. Dingledine and S. Murdoch. Performance improvements on tor or, why tor is slow and what were going to do about it. 2009.
- S. Egelman, A. Acquisti, D. Molnar, C. Herley, N. Christin, and S. Krishnamurthi. Please continue to hold an empirical study on user tolerance of security delays. 2010.
- H. Elmore. Designing translucent security: Insights from a usability evaluation of pgp desktop. Master's thesis, Indiana University, 2009.
- J. L. Fleiss and J. Cohen. The equivalence of weighted kappa and the intraclass correlation coefficient as measures of reliability. Educational and Psychological Measurement, 33(3):613-619, 1973.
- M. Freedman and R. Morris. Tarzan: A peer-to-peer anonymizing network layer. In Proceedings of the 9th ACM conference on Computer and communications security, pages 193-206. ACM, 2002.
- V. Garg and J. Camp. Heuristics and biases: Implications for security design. Technology and Society Magazine, IEEE, 32(1):73-79, 2013.
- D. Goldschlag, M. Reed, and P. Syverson. Onion routing. Communica- tions of the ACM, 42(2):39-41, 1999.
- R. Hertwig, G. Barron, E. Weber, I. Erev, et al. Decisions from experience and the effect of rare events in risky choice. Psychological science, 15(8):534, 2004.
- M. G. Hoy and G. Milne. Gender differences in privacy-related measures for young adult facebook users. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 10(2):28-45, 2010.
- P. Inglesant and M. Sasse. The true cost of unusable password policies: password use in the wild. In Proceedings of the 28th international conference on Human factors in computing systems, pages 383-392. ACM, 2010.
- C.-M. Karat. Iterative usability testing of a security application. In Proceedings of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society Annual Meeting, volume 33, pages 273-277. SAGE Publications, 1989.
- S. Köpsell. Low latency anonymous communication-how long are users willing to wait? In Emerging Trends in Information and Communication Security, pages 221-237. Springer, 2006.
- J. Landis and G. Koch. The measurement of observer agreement for categorical data. Biometrics, pages 159-174, 1977.
- S. Lederer, I. Hong, K. Dey, and A. Landay. Personal privacy through understanding and action: five pitfalls for designers. Personal and Ubiquitous Computing, 8(6):440-454, 2004.
- K. Loesing, S. J. Murdoch, and R. Dingledine. A case study on measuring statistical data in the Tor anonymity network. In Proceedings of the Workshop on Ethics in Computer Security Research (WECSR 2010), LNCS. Springer, January 2010.
- P. Mittal, A. Khurshid, J. Juen, M. Caesar, and N. Borisov. Stealthy traf- fic analysis of low-latency anonymous communication using throughput fingerprinting. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS 2011), October 2011.
- R. Molich and J. Nielsen. Improving a human-computer dialogue. Communications of the ACM, 33(3):338-348, 1990.
- S. J. Murdoch and G. Danezis. Low-cost traffic analysis of tor. In Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, SP '05, pages 183-195, Washington, DC, USA, 2005. IEEE Computer Society.
- G. Norcie, K. Caine, and L. J. Camp. Eliminating Stop-Points in the Installation and Use of Anonymity Systems: A Usability Evaluation of the Tor Browser Bundle. In 5th Workshop on Hot Topics in Privacy Enhancing Technologies (HotPETS), 2012.
- M. Reed, P. Syverson, and D. Goldschlag. Anonymous connections and onion routing. Selected Areas in Communications, IEEE Journal on, 16(4):482-494, 1998.
- R. Reeder and R. Maxion. User interface dependability through goal- error prevention. In Dependable Systems and Networks, 2005. DSN 2005. Proceedings. International Conference on, pages 60-69. Ieee, 2005.
- S. Romanosky and C. Kuo. Foxtor: Anonymous web browsing. Tor GUI Competition, 2006.
- L. Sweeney. k-anonymity: A model for protecting privacy. Interna- tional Journal of Uncertainty, Fuzziness and Knowledge-Based Systems, 10(05):557-570, 2002.
- A. Tversky, D. Kahneman, et al. The framing of decisions and the psychology of choice. Science, 211(4481):453-458, 1981.
- H. Varian. System reliability and free riding. Economics of Information Security, pages 1-15, 2004.
- C. Viecco. Improving Anonymity Networks via End-to-End Design. PhD thesis, Indiana University, 2011.
- A. Whitten and J. Tygar. Why johnny cant encrypt: A usability evaluation of pgp 5.0. In Proceedings of the 8th USENIX Security Symposium, volume 99, 1999.
- M. E. Zurko and R. T. Simon. User-centered security. In Proceedings of the 1996 workshop on New security paradigms, pages 27-33. ACM, 1996.
