---
url: https://www.academia.edu/99198673/Clickstream_tracking_of_TOR_users_may_be_easier_than_you_think
title: Clickstream tracking of TOR users: may be easier than you think
fetched_at: 2026-05-30T17:27:18
content_hash: sha1:1d124e4bf1ba19c6ce65e9e8ff38de37a896ebf2
extractor: trafilatura
---

# Clickstream tracking of TOR users: may be easier than you think

2018, Journal of Cyber Security Technology

[https://doi.org/10.1080/23742917.2018.1518060](https://doi.org/10.1080/23742917.2018.1518060)

…

18 pages

#### Sign up for access to the world's latest research

## Abstract

As the importance and prevalence of web analytics have increased over the last decade, so has the number of user trying to maintain their online anonymity. The Onion Routing (TOR) system is often seen as the best anonymity tool out there and is used by nearly 2.5 million people daily. For a significant number of these users, many of TOR's features and terms are rather difficult to comprehend; yet, these users tend to believe that TOR offers more privacy protection than what it is actually intended or able to provide. In this paper, the authors specifically focus on the TOR browserone of the two key components of the TOR system. In particular, the authors demonstrate that if used in its default settings, the TOR browser provides little if any protection against four most common forms of user tracking. Hence, to achieve true online anonymity, extra efforts and vigilance need to be exercised on the part of the TOR user.

## Related papers

[Practical Vulnerabilities of the Tor Anonymity Network](https://www.academia.edu/143483971/Practical_Vulnerabilities_of_the_Tor_Anonymity_Network)

Fordham University Press eBooks, 2013

Onion routing is a technology designed at the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory to protect the security and privacy of network communications. In particular, Tor, the current widely-used onion routing system, was originally designed to protect intelligence gathering from open sources and to otherwise protect military communications over insecure or public networks, but it is also used by human rights workers, law enforcement officers, abuse victims, ordinary citizens, corporations, journalists, and others. In this article our focus is less on what Tor currently does for its various users and more on what it does not do. Use of Tor for law enforcement and the national security applications that motivated it faces more significant adversaries than most other uses. We discuss some of the types of threats against which Tor currently offers only limited protection and the impacts of these on all classes of users, but especially on those most likely to confront them.

[An Examination of Tor Technology Based Anonymous Internet](https://www.academia.edu/95882826/An_Examination_of_Tor_Technology_Based_Anonymous_Internet)

InSITE Conference, 2015

The concept of Anonymous Internet is getting traction in the wake of recent privacy related NSA (National Security Agency) privacy allegations. Based on our initial findings, Tor appears to be a solution for this and taking control of the Internet and the User’s privacy. Our study reveals that Tor’s power and future ability to thrive revolves around its expansion. Tor needs to grow in size specifically in nodes as well as in software (Torrenting). With the increase in servers and relays in the system as well as few tweaks including a constant shuffling of servers, the more protected a user would be. We plan to put further research and development efforts in Tor to ensure that Tor becomes a viable source for anonymous Internet as well as popular mainstream browser.

[Tor, anonymity and countercontrol in the log in era](https://www.academia.edu/12081484/Tor_anonymity_and_countercontrol_in_the_log_in_era)

Internet users have a name, a surname and a history: searches, place visited, products bought, etc – that is an online identity linked to their online behaviour. Tracking cookies keep them logged in, smartphones require to create a personal account and to be logged in order to be used. The exchange between users and corporation consists in agreeing to the terms of service for the former – which allow these corporations to deploy data – and to provide services and products for the latter. In everyday life this practice has become so common that has blurred users’ awareness of how they have turn out to be controlled.

[Analysis of an anonymity network for web browsing](https://www.academia.edu/17165881/Analysis_of_an_anonymity_network_for_web_browsing)

2002

Various systems offering anonymity for near real-time Internet traffic have been operational. However, they did not deliver many quantitative results about performance, bandwidth overhead, or other issues that arise when implementing or operating such a system. Consequently, the problem of designing and operating these systems in a way that they provide a good balance between usability, protection from attacks, and overhead is not well understood. In this paper, we present the analysis of an anonymity network for web browsing that offers a high level of anonymity against a sophisticated attacker and good end-to-end performance at a reasonable bandwidth overhead. We describe a novel way of operating the system that maximizes the protection from traffic analysis attacks while minimizing the bandwidth overhead. We deliver quantitative results about the performance of our system, which should help to give a better understanding of anonymity networks.

[Why Johnny Can't Blow the Whistle: Identifying and Reducing Usability Issues in Anonymity Systems](https://www.academia.edu/66144263/Why_Johnny_Cant_Blow_the_Whistle_Identifying_and_Reducing_Usability_Issues_in_Anonymity_Systems)

Proceedings 2014 Workshop on Usable Security, 2014

Tor is one of the most widely used anonymity networks in the world. The anonymity provided to any individual Tor user is a function of the total number of Tor users. Adoption of anonymity tools, including Tor, can be hindered by a lack of usability. Therefore, enhancing Tor's usability and making it easier for more people to use Tor successfully increases security for all Tor users. To enhance Tor usability we begin by identifying stop-points which may act as barriers to using the Tor Browser Bundle (TBB). We suggest changes based on our analysis of these stop-points. To follow through, in our second study we test whether the changes we recommended to the Tor Project are effective in increasing usability, and find a significant decrease in stop-points across the board. Based on these studies, we both suggest new design heuristics appropriate for improving the usability of anonymity systems and identify design heuristics which are particularly salient in the design of anonymity systems. Permission to freely reproduce all or part of this paper for noncommercial purposes is granted provided that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Reproduction for commercial purposes is strictly prohibited without the prior written consent of the Internet Society, the first-named author (for reproduction of an entire paper only), and the author's employer if the paper was prepared within the scope of employment.

[Anonymity Tools for the Internet](https://www.academia.edu/26614196/Anonymity_Tools_for_the_Internet)

URL: http://www. swiss. ai. mit. edu/ …, 2001

The Internet, once hailed as a super-egalitarian forum for the masses, is increasingly dominated by powerful corporations and governments. Unfortunately, the architecture of the Internet makes it easy for such entities to covertly monitor users' behavior; so, as the ...

[Shedding Light on the Dark Corners of the Internet: A Survey of Tor Research](https://www.academia.edu/36378999/Shedding_Light_on_the_Dark_Corners_of_the_Internet_A_Survey_of_Tor_Research)

Anonymity services have seen high growth rates with increased usage in the past few years. Among various services, Tor is one of the most popular peer-to-peer anonymizing service. In this survey paper, we summarize, analyze, classify and quantify 26 years of research on the Tor network. Our research shows that 'security' and 'anonymity' are the most frequent keywords associated with Tor research studies. Quantitative analysis shows that the majority of research studies on Tor focus on 'deanonymization' the design of a breaching strategy. The second most frequent topic is analysis of path selection algorithms to select more resilient paths. Analysis shows that the majority of experimental studies derived their results by deploying private testbeds while others performed simulations by developing custom simulators. No consistent parameters have been used for Tor performance analysis. The majority of authors performed throughput and latency analysis.

[05411 Abstracts Collection Anonymous Communication and its Applications Dagstuhl Seminar Trac analysis without direct observations Improving the Decoding Eciency of Private Search Anonymity Metrics Revisited Tor: An Internet Anonymous Communication System Anonymity and Beyond Abstracts and Slides](https://www.academia.edu/75782206/05411_Abstracts_Collection_Anonymous_Communication_and_its_Applications_Dagstuhl_Seminar_Trac_analysis_without_direct_observations_Improving_the_Decoding_Eciency_of_Private_Search_Anonymity_Metrics_Revisited_Tor_An_Internet_Anonymous_Communication_System_Anonymity_and_Beyond_Abstracts_and_Slides)

From 09.10.05 to 14.10.05, the Dagstuhl Seminar 05411 Anonymous Communication and its Applications was held in the International Conference and Research Center (IBFI), Schloss Dagstuhl. During the seminar, several participants presented their current research, and ongoing work and open problems were discussed. Abstracts of the presentations given during the seminar as well as abstracts of seminar results and ideas are put together in this paper. The rst section describes the seminar topics and goals in general. Links to extended abstracts or full papers are provided, if available.

[The devil and packet trace anonymization](https://www.academia.edu/34523376/The_devil_and_packet_trace_anonymization)

ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review, 2006

Releasing network measurement data-including packet tracesto the research community is a virtuous activity that promotes solid research. However, in practice, releasing anonymized packet traces for public use entails many more vexing considerations than just the usual notion of how to scramble IP addresses to preserve privacy. Publishing traces requires carefully balancing the security needs of the organization providing the trace with the research usefulness of the anonymized trace. In this paper we recount our experiences in (i) securing permission from a large site to release packet header traces of the site's internal traffic, (ii) implementing the corresponding anonymization policy, and (iii) validating its correctness. We present a general tool, tcpmkpub, for anonymizing traces, discuss the process used to determine the particular anonymization policy, and describe the use of meta-data accompanying the traces to provide insight into features that have been obfuscated by anonymization.

[Overview of Web Anonymization](https://www.academia.edu/69107464/Overview_of_Web_Anonymization)

European Journal of Business Science and Technology

Web anonymization tools have been used for a long time, primarily by the users afraid of possible undesirable consequences of their on-line activity on the web. The paper analyzes both historically proven anonymization tools like TOR and newer tools, namely JAP/JonDo and CyberGhost VPN that are based on slightly modified technological principles. The primary focus is given to the measurement and evaluation of the latency increase and the transmission speed decrease in comparison to normal (non--anonymized) web browser operation. Results show that all anonymization tools being subject of the analysis provide relatively moderate latency increase. On the opposite, the transmission speed decrease was more significant, especially for JonDo.This confirms the conclusions of previous studies resulting that no anonymization tool is suitable for daily web browsing. On the other hand, in the case when higher anonymity is required, their use can be reasonably comfortable from the point of view ...

[[email protected]](https://www.academia.edu/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science York University, Toronto, Canada © 2018 Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group JOURNAL OF CYBER SECURITY TECHNOLOGY 93 or combined (extended) log format [1, 2]. With common log format, the following information about each received request is stored: (a) The IP address of the client/browser that has made the HTTP resource request. (b) The remote login name of the user (which is often time unavailable). (c) The date and time stamp of the HTTP request. (d) The URL of the requested resource, which could be a web page, an image, a javascript, etc. (e) The status code of the request (e.g. 200 – OK, 301 – moved permanently, 404 – not found). (f) The number of bytes transferred as part of the HTTP request. The combined log format stores the same information as the common log format, plus three additional ﬁelds: (g) The referring URL. (h) The user-agent ﬁeld. (i) The cookie ﬁeld. In cases when the company’s webserver is owned and managed by the company itself, the access logs are referred to as ‘in house’. Otherwise, if the server is operated by a Web-hosting company, the access logs are referred to as ‘third-party’. In many cases, the primary objective of a web analytics process is to answer the following question: ‘What are the speciﬁc Web resources that each particular user has requested, and when, while “clicking” through the company’s Web-site?’. This type of analysis is also known as clickstream or clickpath analytics. (For an illustration, see Figure 1). Once the clickstream data are extracted from the access logs, the web analytics process often proceeds by identifying users with similar clickstream patterns [3, 4], and then cross-correlating their data. This second stage of the web analytics process allows the company to discover ‘why’ certain groups of users behave the way they do, and what could be done to improve their website experience and/or entice them to perform some targeted activity the next time they visit the site. It is also important to note that many companies lack the infrastructure or in-house expertise to carry one or both stages of web analytics, so they resort to hiring third-party experts to conduct these tasks on their behalf [5]. 1.2. Clickstream analytics and user privacy While businesses can expect numerous beneﬁts from clickstream analytics (the ﬁrst stage of the web-analytics process), the same cannot be said for individual users that generate clickstream data. Namely, as pointed in [6], clickstream analytics poses a dramatic risk to the personal privacy of the involved users, for a number of reasons. For example, clickstream data can be used to extract sensitive personal information such as those pertaining to a user’s health, political aﬃliations, religious preferences, etc. The extraction of this information can be done not only by the company that owns the website (and its raw access logs) but also by a third-party company possibly hired to analyze the site’s clickstream data, or a marketing 94 N. VLAJIC ET AL. Figure 1. Clickstream (clickpath) through a website. company that gets authorized to access and make use of the ﬁnal web analytics results. Moreover, in some special cases, clickstream data may end up in the hands of law enforcement (for example) as evidence of illegal activity, or to create psy- chological proﬁles and/or establish intent/motive for use in trials [6]. For all these reasons, many web users feel increasingly concerned about the information that is being collected on the Web regarding their online behavior and habits. In fact, according to [7], 86% of the Internet users have, at some point, attempted to remove/obscure their digital footprints on the Internet, using a range of diﬀerent techniques. 1.3. TOR – anonymizing system The solutions (i.e. tools) most commonly deployed by users to attain anonymity on the Web include anonymizing proxies, anonymizing VPNs, and the anonymizing system TOR (The Onion Routing) [8]. From the technical point of view, these three solutions diﬀer in the following: ● An anonymizing proxy is a device that acts as an intermediary/relay between the client that seeks anonymization and the rest of the Internet. In particular, in order to mask the client’s true identity and shield him/her from tracking, the proxy substitutes the client’s IP address with its own before forwarding the client’s requests to the intended server(s). Some anonymizing proxies also can hide the client’s browser type and/or prevent user tracking by means of Web cookies. However, the main disadvantages of using an anonymizing proxy are (1) whoever is running the proxy is able to see the client’s true IP address and could monitor JOURNAL OF CYBER SECURITY TECHNOLOGY 95 his/her traﬃc, (2) anonymizing proxies generally do not perform encryption of transmitted/relayed data, hence the data remain vulnerable to surveillance by a third party. ● An anonymizing VPN works similar to an anonymizing proxy in that it replaces the client’s IP address with one of its own, but in addition, it also sets an ‘encryption tunnel’ between the client’s device and the VPN server. By doing so, the VPN protects the client data from surveillance by a third party (while the data are being transmitted between the client and the VPN server). However, the client’s data and Web activity could still be potentially monitored by the company owning the VPN. ● The anonymizing system TOR is composed of two key elements – an open source TOR browser and a distributed network of relays/proxies [9]. The TOR browser is a modiﬁed version of the Firefox browser – it comes with some special features that enhance user’s security and privacy as well as with the built-in ability to automa- tically connect to the TOR network upon its launch. The TOR network is a dis- tributed system of over 8000 routers [10], which are also referred to as relays or proxies. These routers are geographically spread all over the world and are run by volunteers in a decentralized manner. In terms of its operation, TOR combines the key features of anonymizing proxies and VPN systems, but with a few added layers of complexity, intended to provide extra protection against user tracking and surveillance. Namely, in order to enable anonymous exchange of data between a TOR client and an end server, a routing path involving three randomly selected intermediary TOR proxies is established between them (see Figure 2). The ﬁrst three segments of this path – between the client and the last/exit proxy – are encrypted in order to reduce the likelihood of surveillance by a third party. Also, data encryption is done in a layered (i.e., ‘onion-like’) manner so that only the last/exit proxy is able to decrypt the original client data and forward it to the ﬁnal destina- tion, while the intermediate TOR proxies remain unaware of the data content as well as the identity of the ﬁnal destination. In order to prevent user identiﬁcation and tracking by the destination system, not only that the last/exit proxy replaces the IP address of the sending client with its own but also the routing path through Figure 2. Path through TOR network. 96 N. VLAJIC ET AL. the TOR network (and thus the identity of the last/exit node) is also periodically changed. It should further be noted that around 2/3 of TOR proxies/relays are publicly listed, so (theoretically) an ISP or a government agency could identify, block or monitor these proxies. However, the remaining 1/3 of TOR relays are kept nonpublic and are deployed in cases when a user requires extra protection against blocking and monitoring [10]. Due to its comprehensive, distributed and multilayered architecture, TOR has emerged as the solution of choice for a large number of users seeking protection and anonymity online. According to [10], the TOR system is used by nearly 2.5 million people daily. Unfortunately, as shown in Ref. [11], for an average TOR user, many of its technical features and terms are rather diﬃcult to comprehend. Yet, in spite (or because) of that, the average TOR user tends to believe that TOR oﬀers more privacy protection than what it is actually intended or able to provide. Over the past several years, there have been a few studies pointing at diﬀerent weaknesses of the TOR system, primarily pertaining to the architecture and manage- ment of the TOR’s network. So far, there has been very little discussion concerning the operation of the other key component of the TOR system – the TOR browser, and how well this browser is actually designed to protect user anonymity or prevent user track- ing. The goal of this paper is to look at the performance of the TOR browser when it comes to user tracking speciﬁcally conducted by the end server (i.e. destination system), as shown in Figure 2. In particular, the content of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we ﬁrst address the diﬀerence (and similarities) between the concepts of ‘user anonymity’ and ‘user pseudonymity’ in the context of TOR system and services, as well as provide an overview of some relevant state-of-the-art research works. In Section 3, we provide an overview of the four most common forms of browser-based clickstream tracking. In Section 4, we discuss whether (or how well) the TOR browser can protect its user from each of these forms of tracking, and what the user could do to further minimize the chances of being tracked. In Section 5, we close the paper with the most signiﬁcant conclusions pertaining to our work. 2. Anonymity, pseudonymity, and previous works on tor deanonymization 2.1. Anonymity versus pseudonymity When it comes to the protection of user privacy in the cyber space, the term online anonymity is considered to be the ‘gold standard’ as it implies that both the true identity of a user as well as his/her online actions1 will be fully protected (i.e. concealed). On the other hand, the situation in which the true identity of a user is concealed but his/her actions can still be observed and/or tracked is referred to as online pseudonymity [12]. With these deﬁnitions in mind, it is worth pointing that the anonymizing systems described in Section 1 (including TOR) do not provide true (100%) online anonymity – i.e. they do not provide online anonymity in all situations and against all adversaries. Namely, through the use of intermediary proxies and data encryption, these systems can do a reasonably good job of protecting both user identity and obscuring user actions against a network-based adversary. Yet, in case of an adversary that controls the server JOURNAL OF CYBER SECURITY TECHNOLOGY 97 end of the communication channel (see Figure 2), these systems can at best provide online pseudonymity. Or, to clarify, an adversary that controls the end-server – and, as such, is be able to observe all incoming requests as well as control the content of all responses returned by this server – would not necessarily be able to reveal the true identity of each visiting user but would be in a very good position to track their respective clickstream sequence generated on this particular site/server. (In Section 3, we give an overview of various tracking techniques that can be deployed by an adversary that owns the end server, while in Section 4, we demonstrate reasonable eﬀectiveness of these techniques against the TOR system and its users.) Now, the main objective of this article is to discuss the important role that TOR browser (as a lesser studied component of the TOR system) has when it comes to the actual protection of user anonymity. In other words, the article aims to shed the light on the fact that if used in the default settings, TOR browser is rather ineﬀective against online tracking by the end-server(s) and, as such, could be the key reason why user protection may be downgraded from fully anonymous to pseudonymous. While in itself our ﬁndings may not seem overly concerning – after all, what harm can be done to a user if only his/her actions are known but not his/her true identity? – we would like to remind the reader that in the hands of a determined adversary, pseudonymous data may be as valuable (i.e. dangerous) as fully deanonymized data. Namely, it has been shown in a number of previous research works that a determined adversary could deploy several diﬀerent non-browser-based approaches to successfully identify a TOR/ web user. (We provide a brief overview of these approaches in the subsequent subsec- tion.) These approaches are generally nontrivial to execute on a continuous basis. Hence, when deanonymizing a particular user (i.e. revealing the user’s identity as well as his/her actions), a real-world adversary could deploy one of the given identiﬁcation approaches ﬁrst (to reveal the user’s true identity) and then continue to track the user’s actions/ clickstream by means of the less complex browser-based user tracking techniques (as described in Section 3). This all together implies that from the perspective of privacy protection, preventing the tracking of a pseudonymous user by means of browser-based techniques may ultimately be a very important element of ensuring full anonymity of online users. 2.2. Non-browser-based user deanonymization techniques To date, several diﬀerent approaches to non-browser-based user deanonymization2 have been proposed in the research literature. Majority of these approaches are founded on the concept of network ﬂow watermarking. In its origin, network ﬂow watermarking is a special form of network steganography (i.e. information hiding) that deploys traﬃc characteristics such as packet timing, packet sizes, packet counts or ﬂow rates to achieve covert exchange of information between two communicating parties [13,14]. In addition to information hiding, ﬂow watermarking can also be used for the purposes of network ﬂow analysis (i.e. correlating and/or tracing of network ﬂows). Building on the idea of network ﬂow analysis, the authors of Refs. [15–17] and [18] describe the possible use of ﬂow watermarking as a means to deanonymize TOR users. As illustrated in Figure 3, deanonymization using ﬂow watermarking can be either active [15,16] or passive [17,18]. In case of active ﬂow-based deanonymization (Figure 3(a)), the adversary is assumed to control a colluding network 98 N. VLAJIC ET AL. Figure 3. (a) Active ﬂow-based deanonymization (i.e. identiﬁcation) of TOR users (b) passive ﬂow- based deanonymization (i.e. identiﬁcation) of TOR users. entity (e.g. end server) that can modulate the traﬃc destined for the victim as well as a network entity that can monitor the traﬃc arriving to the victim’s machine. In case of passive ﬂow-based deanonymization (Figure 3(b)), the adversary is assumed to control either a suﬃcient number of strategically located TOR relays or a suﬃcient number of strategically located autonomous systems (ASs) and/or Internet Exchange Points (IXPs) that carry the TOR traﬃc. (Here by ‘strategically located’ we mean relays, ASs or IXPs which are in the position to observe both ends of the victim’s traﬃc.) Clearly, deanonymization of even a single user by means of active or passive network ﬂow watermarking/analysis would require signiﬁcant eﬀort and resources on the part of the adversary, and because of that, these techniques are generally not suited for large-scale or long-term utilization. 3. Browser-based user tracking techniques The goal of this section is to provide a quick reminder of diﬀerent types of user (i.e. clickstream) tracking techniques performed either directly by a web browser and/or are JOURNAL OF CYBER SECURITY TECHNOLOGY 99 facilitated by browser-generated requests. According to [19], there are four general categories of such browser-based user tracking techniques: 3.1. Fingerprinting (IP address)-based tracking The goal of this type of tracking is to be able to identify and track the user on multiple diﬀerent websites belonging to diﬀerent entities (which e.g. cannot be easily done using cookies) and without requiring that the user performs any form of authentication/login. Also, with this type of tracking, the user has no way of knowing that he is tracked and cannot prevent being tracked by simply changing settings on his/her browser. The most common form of this category of tracking is the one based on the IP address of the user’s device (i.e. device that hosts the user’s browser), which can be passively obtained from the network traﬃc and access logs. Tracking (i.e. ﬁngerprinting) based on IP address works well in case of users that deploy one stationary IP address for all of their online activities. Unfortunately, there is a number of situations in which an IP address alone cannot be used to reliably identify/track a speciﬁc user, and those cases include the following: the user uses a mobile device with an inherently changing IP address, the user shares the same device (and its respective IP address) with multiple other users, the user uses an anonymization service to deliberately obscure his/her IP address. 3.2. Storage (cookie)-based tracking This type of tracking requires that a small piece of data (i.e. a unique identiﬁer) be explicitly stored on the user’s device by the user’s browser, typically during the user’s ﬁrst visit to a website. Then, whenever the user revisits this site, the site can retrieve the previously stored data, which in turn allows that the user (i.e. his/her browser) be correctly reidentiﬁed. The best known form of this category of tracking is that based on Web cookies. Recall that Web cookies are exchanged between the client (i.e. browser) and the server via the headers of HTTP packets, and they are automatically recorded by the server (for example) whenever the server is set to use the combined log format. In contrast to IP-based tracking, which is ‘passive’ as it does not require that any special action be done by the tracking site, cookie-based tracking is ‘active’ as it requires that the tracking site explicitly generates and sends the cookie to each user device (i.e. browser). In terms of its eﬃcacy, cookie-based tracking is considered more accurate than IP-based tracking, as it allows that the user (his/her browser) be correctly reidentiﬁed in all those previously mentioned cases in which IP-based tracking fails. However, one big disadvantage of cookie-based tracking is that it can be easily obstructed if (a) the user disallows cookies on his/her browser, or (b) the user cleans the browser’s cookie cache. 3.3. Session (URL rewriting)-based tracking In contrast to cookie-based user tracking, session-based tracking does not require that any server-generated data get stored in the browser’s (i.e. client’s) persistent memory. Instead, at the beginning of each new session with a new client, the server generates the so-called session-id that is unique to this session (and its respective client/user). Then, 100 N. VLAJIC ET AL. before sending the ﬁrst requested page back to the client, the server dynamically inserts the session-id into all relevant URLs found in the given page. This so-called URL rewriting step is applied on the ﬂy to URL links of all dynamic pages subsequently returned to the same client/user [20]. (For an illustration, see Figure 4). Given that all links in the dynamic pages returned to the same client carry the client’s unique session-id embedded in them, it implies that all subsequent navigations (clicks) by this client will be uniquely identiﬁable by the server. The main advantages of user tracking by means of URL rewriting are that it works well for all browser types, even those that do not support cookies, or in cases when the user disables cookies through the browser settings. The downsides of URL rewriting, how- ever, include the following (a) it requires rather intensive programming and processing on the server side; (b) it works well only as long as the user visits dynamically generated pages (if the user clicks on a bookmark or an outside link, the session information will get lost, and tracking will be interrupted); and (c) in contrast to IP address and cookie- based tracking, it is very hard to make this tracking technique entirely obscured from the user, as dynamic URLs containing the user’s session-id get displayed in the browser’s URL bar. 3.4. Cache (ETags)-based tracking This category of tracking is somewhat similar to storage-based tracking, as it also makes use of persistent client-side storage to achieve its objective. However, the main diﬀer- ence between the two is that cache-based tracking avoids storing explicit tracking data Figure 4. URL rewriting. JOURNAL OF CYBER SECURITY TECHNOLOGY 101 in the client’s memory but instead relies on data (objects) that get implicitly and automatically stored in the browser’s cache memory during the standard process of web page retrieval. Namely, in most browser types, after a web page with all of its inline objects is downloaded and displayed to the user, the browser will identify objects that are marked ‘cacheable’ and place them in its Web cache in order to speed up their delivery next time they are requested. Now, to facilitate the process of user tracking, there is nothing preventing the server from adding one ‘dumb’ cacheable tracking object (e.g. a small or invisible image or a javascript) to all its hosted pages, while hiding some unique user-related ID in this object’s metadata. Subsequently, the given metadata, in combination with the mechanisms of object retrieval (from cache or not), could be exploited to track the respective user. One of the most convenient places for hiding such user-related metadata is the so-called Entity Tag (ETag) ﬁeld of HTTP Response Header. ETag is an opaque nonmandatory identiﬁer assigned by the host server to a speciﬁc version of an object found at a particular URL. If the given object ever changes, while keeping the same URL, a new and diﬀerent ETag should be assigned to it. As such, ETag is intended to be an additional HTTP ﬁeld/feature that allows web browsers to verify whether the objects stored in their respective Web cache are up-to- date. Unfortunately, there are no speciﬁc rules about how ETag values should be produced. Hence, it is possible to send a completely diﬀerent ETag value to every single visitor retrieving exactly the same object. This, ultimately, can be exploited to turn ETag into an eﬀective means of user tracking. The actual idea of using ETag for the purpose of user tracking is illustrated in Figure 5. In Figure 5, server foo has placed a tracking image (trackingImg.jpg) in all its hosted pages. At the time of user Bob’s visit to ﬁrst of server foo’s pages, Bob’s browser ends up making HTTP GET requests for all inline objects of this page, including trackingImg.jpg. As a response, server foo sends trackingImg.jpg back to Bob’s browser together with an assigned ETag value that is Figure 5. User tracking by means of ETags. 102 N. VLAJIC ET AL. unique to Bob (12345) and a maximum possible cache-control age (which will insure that the tracking image gets stored and kept in the browser’s Web cache for a suﬃciently long period of time). As a result, if/when Bob clicks on (i.e. requests) any other page from server foo, the browser will attempt to revalidate the copy of trackingImg.jpg already stored in its cache by sending a HTTP GET request to server foo with If-None-Match ﬁeld set to the previously received value of ETag (12345). This will allow server foo not only to discover that this request has been made by a returning visitor but also to reveal the visitor’s actual (i.e. previously assigned) identity. A clear advantage of ETag-based tracking is that, similar to IP address and cookie based tracking, it is entirely obscured from the user. A disadvantage, however, is that this tracking technique will stop working the moment the user clears his/her browser’s Web cache. 4. Tracking of TOR users Before we discuss the eﬀectiveness of tracking TOR users by means of the four pre- viously described techniques, we will brieﬂy clarify the actual tracking framework that we consider in this study. Namely, from a very general perspective, there are two main types of user tracking (i.e. clickstream) analytics: Type I Analytics is concerned with discovering the speciﬁc sequence of web pages that each individual user has accessed/requested while visiting a given website. Type II Analytics is an extension of Type I Analytics that, in addition to discovering the sequence of visited web pages, also seeks to discover the identity (username or some other unique and veriﬁable credential) of each analyzed user. In other words, in case of type I analytics, it is suﬃcient to discover that a pseudon- ymous user X has accessed pages A, B, C, . . ., while type II seeks to discover that a particular user Bob has accessed pages A, B, C . . .. In most cases, to achieve type II analytics, the end system implements and relies on some form of user authentication in addition to deploying one or more techniques of browser-based user tracking. It is worth mentioning here that several research works (e.g. Refs. [20] and [21]) point to the possibility of identifying web users solely based on the analysis of their browsing behavior (i.e. based on the clickstream data that they’ve generated over time). This practically implies that type II clickstream analytics can be achieved simply by extending type I analytics with some suitable form of advanced data mining. For the simplicity of our proceeding discussion, we will assume that the end system (see Figure 2) hosts a public unauthenticated site and is only capable and interested in conducting the clickstream analytics of type I. The speciﬁcs of how the system could use the results of type I analytics to reveal the true identity of individual users are beyond the scope of this paper. 4.1. TOR browser and IP address-based user tracking In Section 1.3, it has already been explained that one of the key functionalities of the TOR system is the obfuscation of the user’s IP address. This means that in the logs of the end system (see Figure 2), the IP address of one of the TOR relays will replace Bob’s true IP address. It should be clear, however, that a simple and persistent IP address substitution (one same TOR-relay address masking Bob’ true IP address throughout his visit of the destination site) will by no means prevent clickstream analytics of type I. Namely, with Bob’s true IP address being JOURNAL OF CYBER SECURITY TECHNOLOGY 103 replaced by one same TOR-relay address, the tracking system will still be able to correctly extract clickstream data speciﬁcally generated by Bob. Now, as explained in Section 1.3, one of the major appeals of TOR over an ordinary anonymizing proxy is the fact that the TOR system implements intermittent change of its routing paths, which results in intermittent change of the substitute IP address (i.e. change of the last/exit relay).3 If the user could count on this change occurring on every new ‘click’, the user could rest assured that he is protected from clickstream analytics of type I. Unfortunately, the oﬃcial TOR site provides no precise information on how often this change takes place in reality, while some TOR-related forums mention that the path change occurs every 10 min. As a part of our study, we have conducted experimentation aimed at evaluating the average time between subsequent changes of TOR paths and their respective exit relays. The experimentation was based on a python script that was programmed to interface with a TOR client and send a continuous stream of HTTP traﬃc through TOR network and toward our end-server. By analyzing the logs of our end-server, we were able to observe that the average time between subsequent changes of the last/exit TOR node was 8.6 min. A detailed break- down of the obtained results is shown in Figure 6. The results of our study, combined with the fact that the average time a user spends on a typical website is 4 min and 36 s [22], very much imply that all the requests received by such a site and arriving from one particular TOR user are likely to carry the same IP address. Consequently, we also conclude that a typical website is likely to be in a good position to conduct successful tracking (i.e. clickstream analysis of type I) for most if not all of its TOR visitors. 4.1.1. What should a TOR user do to withstand being subjected to IP-based clickstream analytics? The TOR browser comes with a useful feature called New Tor Circuit for this Site, shown in Figure 7, which allows the user to force a change of the routing path (and the respective last/exit relay) through the TOR network. Clearly, to avoid being proﬁled based on IP address, the user should utilize this feature after every or at least after every few clicks – the frequency of which will depend on the user’s willingness to tolerate slower browsing experience for the purpose of stronger privacy protection. It is also worth pointing that adjusting the TOR browser’s ‘Security Settings. . ..’ (also shown in Figure 7) to High does not have any impact on IP-based tracking – the user still has to Figure 6. Average time between subsequent changes of last/exit TOR relay. 104 N. VLAJIC ET AL. Figure 7. Forcing a change in TOR’s routing path through TOR browser. manually ensure that TORs routing paths and last/exit relays are periodically changed, as previously explained. 4.2. Tor browser and cookie-based user tracking In its default settings, the TOR browser allows the originating websites to set and retrieve their cookies – a feature that is required so that the user can access (for example) sites that require login. At the same time, third-party cookies are generally disabled. All cookies are deleted from the cookie cache once the user closes the TOR browser. This, obviously, leaves the TOR user vulnerable to cookie-based tracking by the originating websites within the duration of their respective browsing session(s). 4.2.1. What should a TOR user do to withstand being subjected to cookie-based clickstream analytics? One way of disabling (all) cookie is by unchecking the Accept cookies from sites option in the Options → Privacy settings of the TOR browser. While this measure could certainly protect the user from direct cookie-based tracking, it could at the same time raise suspicion by the originating website(s) and/or make them deploy other forms of user tracking. A slightly better and less suspicious approach to dealing with cookie-based tracking might be to keep the cookie option on but make sure that New Identity feature (also shown in Figure 7) is deployed every few clicks. This feature ensures that all states associated with the current browsing session, including any cookies that have been set up to that point, is cleared. 4.3. Tor browser and URL rewriting-based user tracking As explained in Section 2, out of the four discussed types of user tracking, URL rewriting is the easiest one to detect by the user. However, unlike the other three tracking techniques, URL rewriting cannot be prevented through a simple reconﬁguration of the TOR browser settings. 4.3.1. What should a TOR user do to withstand being subjected to URL rewriting- based clickstream analytics? The only way to stop this type of tracking is by periodically deploying the previously mentioned New Identity feature, which will result not only in a deletion of all static session- related data stored in the browser’s memory but also in a ﬂushing of all dynamic session- related data stored in the retrieved URLs. JOURNAL OF CYBER SECURITY TECHNOLOGY 105 4.4. Tor browser and ETags-based user tracking Similar to cookies, the TOR browser enables caching by default though the Web cache gets ﬂushed every time the user closes the TOR browser. Such a setup is intended to strike a balance between anonymity and usability (i.e. performance), as TOR is inherently prone to increased latency due to its communication and processing overheads. This, as in the case of cookies, leaves TOR users vulnerable to ETags-based tracking by the originating websites within the duration of their respective browsing session(s). Figure 8 serves to demonstrate how the TOR browser validates and retrieves images from its cache during a reload of a previously retrieved page. (Note the 304 status code of the enlisted images.) Figure 8. Validation and retrieval of images from Web cache by TOR browser during a reload of a web page. 106 N. VLAJIC ET AL. 4.4.1. What should a TOR user do to withstand being subjected to ETags-based clickstream analytics? In order to prevent caching (and with it ETags tracking), the user would need to enter about:conﬁg in the address bar of his/her TOR browser and then search for parameter browser.cache.memory.enable. The value of this parameter, which is set to true by default, should then be changed to false. 5. Conclusions In this paper, we have surveyed four diﬀerent techniques of user tracking and then looked at the possibility of using each of these techniques to track anonymized TOR visitors to a public website. The presented discussion shows that, in its default settings, the TOR browser provides surprisingly limited protection against all four types of tracking. Subsequently, we point to speciﬁc additional steps and measures that should be taken by a TOR user in order to minimize or fully eliminate the possibility of being tracked online. Notes 1. Here, by ‘user’s online actions’, we mean the sequence of Web/HTTP requests that the user makes over time; or, in other words, the user’s clickstream sequence. 2. Note, in the research works surveyed in this section, the term deanonymization is used only to refer to the process of revealing the user’s true identity and does not include (i.e. is not concerned with) long-term tracking of the user’s actions/clickstream. 3. Note, though, that it is theoretically possible to change a TOR path, and its individual links, without changing the last/exit relay. Notes on contributors Natalija Vlajic is an associate professor in the Lassonde School of Engineering, York University, Toronto. She received a PhD in electrical engineering from University of Ottawa. Her research interests include DDoS, Internet bots and botnets, network and application-layer security, IoT security, machine learning, and user privacy and anonymity. Pooria Madaniis a Ph.D. candidate at the Lassonde School of Engineering, York University, specializing in the areas of computer security and privacy, as well as adversarial machine learning. He obtained his M.Sc. in Artiﬁcial Intelligence from University of New Brunswick in 2015. Ethan Nguyen is a graduate of the Lassonde School of Engineering, York University, with a specialization in computer security. His research interests include user privacy and anonymity, as well as software and network security. Disclosure statement No potential conﬂict of interest was reported by the authors. JOURNAL OF CYBER SECURITY TECHNOLOGY 107 References [1] Varnagar CR, Madhak NN, Kodinariya TM, et al. Web usage minig: a review on process, methods and techniques. Proceedings of IEEE 2013 International Conference on Information Communication and Embedded Systems (ICICES); 2013 Feb; Chennai, India. [2] Booth D, Jansen BJ. A review of methodologies for analyzing websites. IGI Global. 2009. [3] Koch D, Brocklebank J, Grant T, et al. Mining web server logs: tracking users and building sessions. Proceedings of the 27th Annual SAS User Group International Conference (SUGI 27); 2002 Apr; Orlando, Florida, USA. [4] Kaushik A. Web analytics 2.0: the art of online accountability and science of customer centricity. Wiley Publishing, Inc.; Indianapolis, Indiana; 2010. [5] Liu SM, Qui L. Individual privacy and organizational privacy in business analytics. Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Science (HICSS’07); 2007 Jan; Big Island, HI, USA. [6] Skok G. Establishing a legitimate expectation of privacy in clickstream data. Mich Telecommun Technol Law Rev. 2000;6(1):61–88. [7] Rainie L, Kiesler S, Kang R, et al. Anonymity, privacy, and security online. Pew Research Center’s Internet & American Life Project. [cited 2013 Aug]. http://www.pewinternet.org/~/ media//Files/Reports/2013/PIP_AnonymityOnline_090513.pdf [8] Kang R, Brown S, Kiesler S. Why do people seek anonymity on the internet?: informing policy and design. Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI 2013); 2013 Apr; Paris, France. [9] Haraty RA, Zantout B. The TOR data communication system. IEEE J Commun Networks. 2014 Aug;16(4): 415–420. [10] TOR Project. Tor Metrics. https://metrics.torproject.org/[Sep 1, 2018]. [11] Lee L, Fiﬁeld D, Malkin N, et al. A usability evaluation of tor launcher. Proceedings of the 17th Privacy Enhancing Technologies Symposium (PETS 2017); 2017 Jul; Minneapolis, USA. [12] Wondracek G, Holz T, Kidra E, et al. A practical attack to de-anonymize social network users. Proceedings of 2010 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy; May 2010; Berkeley/ Oakland, California. [13] Mazurczyk W, Wendzel S, Zander S, et al. Information hiding in communication networks: funda- mentals, mechanisms, applications, and countermeasures. John Wiley & Sons, Inc.; Hoboken, New Jersey; 2016. [14] Iacovazzi A, Elovici Y. Network ﬂow watermarking: a survey. IEEE Commun Surv Tutorials. 2017;19(1): 512–530. First Quarter. [15] Chakravarty S, Savrou A, Keromytis AD. Traﬃc analysis against law-latency anonymity net- works using available bandwidth estimation. Proceedings of 15th European Symposium on Research in Computer Security (ESORCIS 2010); 2010 Sept; Athens, Greece. [16] Arp D, Yamaguchi F, Rieck K. Torben: a practical side-channel attack for deanonymizing tor communication. Proceedings of 10th ACM Symposium on Information, Computer and Communication Security, ASIA CCS 2015; 2015 Apr; Singapore, Republic of Singapore. [17] Johnson A, Wacek C, Jansen R, et al. Users get routed: traﬃc correlation on tor by realistic adversaries. Proceedings of 2013 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security; 2013 Nov; Berlin, Germany. [18] Vanbever L, Li O, Rexford J, et al. Anonymity on QuickSand: using BGP to compromise tor. Proceedings of 13th ACM Workshop on Hot Topics in Networks (HotNets’14); 2014 Oct; Los Angeles, CA, USA. [19] Bujlow T, Carela-Espanol V, Sole-Pareta J, et al. A survey on web tracking: mechanisms, impications and defenses. Proc IEEE. 2017 Mar;105(8): 1476–1510. [20] Abramson M, Aha DW. User authentication from web browsing behavior. Proceedings of 26th International Florida Artiﬁcial Intelligence Research Society Conference (FLAIRS); 2013 May; St. Pete Beach, Florida. 108 N. VLAJIC ET AL. [21] Fan XX, Chow KP, Xu F. Web user proﬁling based on browsing behavior analysis. Proceedings of 10th IFIP Conference on Digital Forensics (DF); 2014 Jan; Vienna, Austria. [22] Yeh PJ, Li JT, Yuan SM. Tracking the changes of dynamic web pages in the existence of URL rewriting. Proceedings of 5th Australian Data Mining Conference (AusDM2006); 2006 Nov; Sydney, Australia.

## References (22)

- Varnagar CR, Madhak NN, Kodinariya TM, et al. Web usage minig: a review on process, methods and techniques. Proceedings of IEEE 2013 International Conference on Information Communication and Embedded Systems (ICICES); 2013 Feb; Chennai, India.
- Booth D, Jansen BJ. A review of methodologies for analyzing websites. IGI Global. 2009.
- Koch D, Brocklebank J, Grant T, et al. Mining web server logs: tracking users and building sessions. Proceedings of the 27th Annual SAS User Group International Conference (SUGI 27); 2002 Apr; Orlando, Florida, USA.
- Kaushik A. Web analytics 2.0: the art of online accountability and science of customer centricity. Wiley Publishing, Inc.; Indianapolis, Indiana; 2010.
- Liu SM, Qui L. Individual privacy and organizational privacy in business analytics. Proceedings of the 40 th Hawaii International Conference on System Science (HICSS'07); 2007 Jan; Big Island, HI, USA.
- Skok G. Establishing a legitimate expectation of privacy in clickstream data. Mich Telecommun Technol Law Rev. 2000;6(1):61-88.
- Rainie L, Kiesler S, Kang R, et al. Anonymity, privacy, and security online. Pew Research Center's Internet & American Life Project. [cited 2013 Aug]. http://www.pewinternet.org/~/ media//Files/Reports/2013/PIP_AnonymityOnline_090513.pdf
- Kang R, Brown S, Kiesler S. Why do people seek anonymity on the internet?: informing policy and design. Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI 2013); 2013 Apr; Paris, France.
- Haraty RA, Zantout B. The TOR data communication system. IEEE J Commun Networks. 2014 Aug;16(4): 415-420.
- TOR Project. Tor Metrics. https://metrics.torproject.org/[Sep 1, 2018].
- Lee L, Fifield D, Malkin N, et al. A usability evaluation of tor launcher. Proceedings of the 17 th Privacy Enhancing Technologies Symposium (PETS 2017); 2017 Jul; Minneapolis, USA.
- Wondracek G, Holz T, Kidra E, et al. A practical attack to de-anonymize social network users. Proceedings of 2010 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy; May 2010; Berkeley/ Oakland, California.
- Mazurczyk W, Wendzel S, Zander S, et al. Information hiding in communication networks: funda- mentals, mechanisms, applications, and countermeasures. John Wiley & Sons, Inc.; Hoboken, New Jersey; 2016.
- Iacovazzi A, Elovici Y. Network flow watermarking: a survey. IEEE Commun Surv Tutorials. 2017;19(1): 512-530. First Quarter.
- Chakravarty S, Savrou A, Keromytis AD. Traffic analysis against law-latency anonymity net- works using available bandwidth estimation. Proceedings of 15 th European Symposium on Research in Computer Security (ESORCIS 2010); 2010 Sept; Athens, Greece.
- Arp D, Yamaguchi F, Rieck K. Torben: a practical side-channel attack for deanonymizing tor communication. Proceedings of 10 th ACM Symposium on Information, Computer and Communication Security, ASIA CCS 2015; 2015 Apr; Singapore, Republic of Singapore.
- Johnson A, Wacek C, Jansen R, et al. Users get routed: traffic correlation on tor by realistic adversaries. Proceedings of 2013 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security; 2013 Nov; Berlin, Germany.
- Vanbever L, Li O, Rexford J, et al. Anonymity on QuickSand: using BGP to compromise tor. Proceedings of 13 th ACM Workshop on Hot Topics in Networks (HotNets'14); 2014 Oct; Los Angeles, CA, USA.
- Bujlow T, Carela-Espanol V, Sole-Pareta J, et al. A survey on web tracking: mechanisms, impications and defenses. Proc IEEE. 2017 Mar;105(8): 1476-1510.
- Abramson M, Aha DW. User authentication from web browsing behavior. Proceedings of 26 th International Florida Artificial Intelligence Research Society Conference (FLAIRS); 2013 May; St. Pete Beach, Florida.
- Fan XX, Chow KP, Xu F. Web user profiling based on browsing behavior analysis. Proceedings of 10 th IFIP Conference on Digital Forensics (DF); 2014 Jan; Vienna, Austria.
- Yeh PJ, Li JT, Yuan SM. Tracking the changes of dynamic web pages in the existence of URL rewriting. Proceedings of 5 th Australian Data Mining Conference (AusDM2006); 2006 Nov; Sydney, Australia.
