---
url: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/375488015_Smart_Noise_Detection_for_Statistical_Disclosure_Attacks
title: Smart Noise Detection for Statistical Disclosure Attacks | Request PDF
fetched_at: 2026-05-30T16:49:13
content_hash: sha1:2eb46eb2dbf3451405cbdfe917e5479af3ae78c7
extractor: trafilatura
---

## No full-text available

To read the full-text of this research,

you can request a copy directly from the authors.

While anonymization systems like mix networks can provide privacy to their users by, e.g., hiding their communication relationships, several traffic analysis attacks can deanonymize them. In this work, we examine Statistical Disclosure Attacks and introduce a new implementation called the Smart Noise Statistical Disclosure Attack. This attack can improve results by examining how often other users send together with the attacker’s target to better filter out the noise caused by them. We evaluate this attack by comparing it to previous variants in various simulations and thus show how it can improve upon them. Further, we demonstrate how other implementations can be improved by combing them with our approach to noise calculation. Finally, we critically review used evaluation metrics to determine their significance.

To read the full-text of this research,

you can request a copy directly from the authors.

... Adversaries may collect data from the network's information flow over a long period to de-anonymize users by analyzing it. To measure this vulnerability (i.e., long-term information leakage), several disclosure attacks have been revealed by VOLUME 4, 2016 researchers [13], [43]- [46]. Disclosure attacks are an effective type of traffic analysis attacks used to measure the vulnerability of AC systems against the global passive adversary who observes all communication lines in the network. ...

... The provided experimental results are averaged over 50 repetitions. We follow assumptions in the simulations similar to those given in previous works [12], [46], [48], [50] as follows: • In the AC system, there are a total of N users and each user has m communication partners selected randomly from N users. • Users send messages through the Poisson process following the same message-sending rate per time unit (λ Alice ), i.e., inter-arrival time between messages are determined by the exponential distribution. ...

... 18 VOLUME 4, 2016 This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Access. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and In [53], it is shown that this traffic model reflects realistic message-sending behavior and has been widely used in previous studies to simulate real user behavior in anonymous communication systems [12], [32], [46], [48], [50], [54]. ...

Mix-nets are essential tools for safeguarding user privacy in communication networks. When deploying systems, two well-known mixing methods, batch (e.g., Timed Mix) and continuous mixing (e.g., Stop-and-Go Mix), are commonly used in real-world Mix-nets. However, no comprehensive study has evaluated the impact of these methods on anonymity, long-term information leakage, and the cost associated with dummy message overhead. To address this gap, this study provides a comprehensive analysis of these mixing methods. To this end, anonymity set size and entropy metrics are used to evaluate the anonymity protection of individual messages. The applicability of the Statistical Disclosure Attack (SDA) is extended to evaluate long-term information leakage for both mixing methods, and the closed-loop control anonymity protection model is adapted to measure the cost of anonymity protection in terms of the dummy message overhead. The experimental results show that continuous mixes provide stronger anonymity protection for individual messages—yielding up to 10% higher entropy under the default experimental settings. However, both long-term information leakage and the cost of achieving the desired protection are generally higher in continuous mixes, especially under high traffic scenarios. For example, under the default experimental settings, completing the SDA requires 1.5 times more observations in batch mixing than in continuous mixing and achieves the desired protection with 49% less cost in terms of the dummy message usage. These findings highlight the importance of selecting appropriate mixing method to balance anonymity, long-term information leakage, and cost in anonymous communication systems.

... al. [33] improve on the use of noise by introducing cloak users that generate messages at the same time as Alice to increase the difficulty of finding communication patterns. Finally, other authors introduced Noise SDA (NSDA) [34], which analyzes the frequency of message co-occurrence between a target user and other users, allowing for more effective filtering of irrelevant noise. However, the previous studies used simulated data to validate their findings and evaluate their performance. ...

Messages sent across multiple platforms can be correlated to infer users’ attitudes, behaviors, preferences, lifestyles, and more. Therefore, research on anonymous communication systems has intensified in the last few years. This research introduces a new algorithm, Threading Statistical Disclosure Attack with EM (TSDA-EM), that employs real-world data to reveal communication’s behavior in an anonymous social network. In this study, we utilize a network constructed from email exchanges to represent interactions between individuals within an institution. The proposed algorithm is capable of identifying communication patterns within a mixed network, even under the observation of a global passive attacker. By employing multi-threading, this implementation reduced the average execution time by a factor of five when using a dataset with a large number of participants. Additionally, it has markedly improved classification accuracy, detecting more than 79% of users’ communications in large networks and more than 95% in small ones.

Intersection attacks, which are popular traffic analysis attacks, have been extensively studied in anonymous point-to-point communication scenarios. These attacks are also known to be challenging threats to anonymous group communication, e.g., microblogging. However, it remains unclear how powerful these attacks can be, especially when considering realistic user communication behavior. In this paper, we study the effectiveness of intersection attacks on anonymous microblogging systems utilizing Twitter and Reddit datasets. Our findings show that the attacks are effective regardless of whether users post their messages under pseudonyms or publish them to topics without attaching identifiers. Additionally, we observed that attacks are feasible under certain settings despite increasing userbase size, communication rounds' length, cover traffic, or traffic delays.

Traffic analysis is a type of attack on secure communications systems, in which the adversary extracts useful patterns and information from the observed traffic. This paper improves and extends an efficient traffic analysis attack, called "statistical disclosure attack." Moreover, we propose a solution to defend against the improved (and, a fortiori, the original) statistical disclosure attack. Our solution delays the attacker considerably, meaning that he should gather significantly more observations to be able to deduce meaningful information from the traffic.

It is widely accepted that Disclosure Attacks are effective against high-latency anonymous communication systems. A number of Disclosure Attack variants can be found in the literature that effectively de-anonymize traffic sent through a threshold mix. Nevertheless, these attacks' performance has been mostly evaluated through simulation and how their effectiveness varies with the parameters of the system is not well-understood. We present the LSDA, a novel disclosure attack based on the Maximum Likelihood (ML) approach, in which user profiles are estimated solving a Least Squares problem. Further, contrary to previous heuristic-based attacks, our approach allows to analytically derive formulae that characterize the profiling error of the LSDA with respect to the system's parameters. We verify through simulation that our predictors for the error closely model reality, and that the LSDA recovers users' profiles with greater accuracy than its predecessors.

We introduce a new traffic analysis attack: the Two-sided Statistical Disclosure Attack, that tries to uncover the receivers
of messages sent through an anonymizing network supporting anonymous replies. We provide an abstract model of an anonymity
system with users that reply to messages. Based on this model, we propose a linear approximation describing the likely receivers
of sent messages. Using simulations, we evaluate the new attack given different traffic characteristics and we show that it
is superior to previous attacks when replies are routed in the system.

Abstract This paper introduces an information theoretic model that allows to quantify the degree of anonymity provided by schemes for anonymous connections It considers attackers that obtain probabilis - tic information about users The degree is based on the probabilities an attacker, after observing the system, assigns to the di?erent users of the system as being the originators of a message As a proof of concept, the model is applied to some existing systems The model is shown to be very useful for evaluating the level of privacy a system provides under various attack scenarios, for measuring the amount of information an at - tacker gets with a particular attack and for comparing di?erent systems amongst each other

Traffic analysis is the best known approach to uncover relationships amongst users of anonymous communication systems, such
as mix networks. Surprisingly, all previously published techniques require very specific user behavior to break the anonymity
provided by mixes. At the same time, it is also well known that none of the considered user models reflects realistic behavior
which casts some doubt on previous work with respect to real-life scenarios. We first present a user behavior model that,
to the best of our knowledge, is the least restrictive scheme considered so far. Second, we develop the Perfect Matching Disclosure
Attack, an efficient attack based on graph theory that operates without any assumption on user behavior. The attack is highly
effective when de-anonymizing mixing rounds because it considers all users in a round at once, rather than single users iteratively.
Furthermore, the extracted sender-receiver relationships can be used to enhance user profile estimations. We extensively study
the effectiveness and efficiency of our attack and previous work when de-anonymizing users communicating through a threshold
mix. Empirical results show the advantage of our proposal. We also show how the attack can be refined and adapted to different
scenarios including pool mixes, and how precision can be traded in for speed, which might be desirable in certain cases.

Based on the nomenclature of the early papers in the field, we propose a set of terminology which is both expressive and precise. More particularly, we define anonymity, unlinkability, unobservability, and pseudonymity (pseudonyms and digital pseudonyms, and their attributes). We hope that the adoption of this terminology might help to achieve better progress in the field by avoiding that each researcher invents a language of his/her own from scratch. Of course, each paper will need additional vocabulary, which might be added consistently to the terms defined here.

Abstract An improvement over the previously known,disclosure attack is presented that allows, using statistical methods, to efiectively deanonymize users of a mix system. Furthermore the statistical disclosure attack is computationally e‐cient, and the conditions for it to be possible and accurate are much better understood. The new,attack can be generalized easily to a variety of anonymity systems beyond mix networks. Keywords: Statistical disclosure attack, tra‐c analysis, anonymity

Abstract Currently known basic anonymity techniques depend on iden - tity veri cation If veri cation of user identities is not possible due to the related management overhead or a general lack of information (e g on the Internet), an adversary can participate several times in a com - munication relationship and observe the honest users In this paper we focus on the problem of providing anonymity without identity veri ca - tion The notion of probabilistic anonymity is introduced Probabilistic anonymity is based on a publicly known security parameter, which de - termines the security of the protocol For probabilistic anonymity the insecurity, expressed as the probability of having only one honest par - ticipant, approaches 0 at an exponential rate as the security parameter is changed linearly Based on our security model we propose a new MIX variant called "Stop - and - Go - MIX" (SG - MIX) which provides anonymity without identity veri cation, and prove that it is probabilistically secure

A user is only anonymous within a set of other users. Hence, the core functionality of an anonymity providing technique is to establish an anonymity set. In open environments, such as the Internet, the estab- lished anonymity sets in the whole are observable and change with every anonymous communication. We use this fact of changing anonymity sets and present a model where we can determine the protection limit of an anonymity technique, i.e. the number of observations required for an at- tacker to "break" uniquely a given anonymity technique. In this paper, we use the popular MIX method to demonstrate our attack. The MIX method forms the basis of most of the today's deployments of anonymity services (e.g. Freedom, Onion Routing, Webmix). We note that our ap- proach is general and can be applied equally well to other anonymity providing techniques.

We extend earlier research on mounting and resisting passive long-term end-to-end traffic analysis attacks against anonymous message systems, by describing how an eavesdropper can learn sender-receiver connections even when the substrate is a network of pool mixes, the attacker is non-global, and senders have complex behavior or generate padding messages. Additionally, we describe how an attacker can use information about message distinguishability to speed the attack. We simulate our attacks for a variety of scenarios, focusing on the amount of information needed to link senders to their recipients. In each scenario, we show that the intersection attack is slowed but still succeeds against a steady-state mix network. We find that the attack takes an impractical amount of time when message delivery times are highly variable; when the attacker can observe very little of the network; and when users pad consistently and the adversary does not know how the network behaves in their absence.

In this paper we look closely at the popular metric of anonymity, the anonymity set, and point out a number of problems associated with it. We then propose an alternative information theoretic measure of anonymity which takes into account the probabilities of users sending and receiving the messages and show how to calculate it for a message in a standard mix-based anonymity system. We also use our metric to compare a pool mix to a traditional threshold mix, which was impossible using anonymity sets. We also show how the maximum route length restriction which exists in some fielded anonymity systems can lead to the attacker performing more powerful traffic analysis. Finally, we discuss open problems and future work on anonymity measurements.

Intersection attacks, which are popular traffic analysis attacks, have been extensively studied in anonymous point-to-point communication scenarios. These attacks are also known to be challenging threats to anonymous group communication, e.g., microblogging. However, it remains unclear how powerful these attacks can be, especially when considering realistic user communication behavior. In this paper, we study the effectiveness of intersection attacks on anonymous microblogging systems utilizing Twitter and Reddit datasets. Our findings show that the attacks are effective regardless of whether users post their messages under pseudonyms or publish them to topics without attaching identifiers. Additionally, we observed that attacks are feasible under certain settings despite increasing userbase size, communication rounds’ length, cover traffic, or traffic delays.

In this paper we introduce a system called Crowds for protecting users' anonymity on the world-wide-web. Crowds, named for the notion of “blending into a crowd,” operates by grouping users into a large and geographically diverse group (crowd) that collectively issues requests on behalf of its members. Web servers are unable to learn the true source of a request because it is equally likely to have originated from any member of the crowd, and even collaborating crowd members cannot distinguish the originator of a request from a member who is merely forwarding the request on behalf of another. We describe the design, implementation, security, performance, and scalability of our system. Our security analysis introduces degrees of anonymity as an important tool for describing and proving anonymity properties.

Statistical disclosure is a well-studied technique that an attacker can use to uncover relations between users in mix-based
anonymity systems. Prior work has focused on finding the receivers to whom a given targeted user sends. In this paper, we
investigate the effectiveness of statistical disclosure in finding all of a users’ contacts, including those from whom she
receives messages. To this end, we propose a new attack called the Reverse Statistical Disclosure Attack (RSDA). RSDA uses
observations of all users sending patterns to estimate both the targeted user’s sending pattern and her receiving pattern.
The estimated patterns are combined to find a set of the targeted user’s most likely contacts. We study the performance of
RSDA in simulation using different mix network configurations and also study the effectiveness of cover traffic as a countermeasure.
Our results show that that RSDA outperforms the traditional SDA in finding the user’s contacts, particularly as the amounts
of user traffic and cover traffic rise.

A passive attacker can compromise a generic anonymity protocol by applying the so called disclosure attack, i.e. a special
traffic analysis attack. In this work we present a more efficient way to accomplish this goal, i.e. we need less observations
by looking for unique minimal hitting sets. We call this the hitting set attack or just HS-attack.
In general, solving the minimal hitting set problem is NP-hard. Therefore, we use frequency analysis to enhance the applicability
of our attack. It is possible to apply highly efficient backtracking search algorithms. We call this approach the statistical hitting set attack or SHS-attack.
However, the statistical hitting set attack is prone to wrong solutions with a given small probability. We use here duality
checking algorithms to resolve this problem. We call this final exact attack the HS*-attack.

A technique based on public key cryptography is presented that allows an electronic mail system to hide who a participant communicates with as well as the content of the communication - in spite of an unsecured underlying telecommunication system. The technique does not require a universally trusted authority. one correspondent can remain anonymous to a second, while allowing the second to respond via an untraceable return address. The technique can also be used to form rosters of untraceable digital pseudonyms from selected applications. Applicants retain the exclusive ability to form digital signatures corresponding to their pseudonyms. Elections in which any interested party can verify that the ballots have been properly counted are possible if anonymously mailed ballots are signed with pseudonyms from a roster of registered voters. Another use allows an individual to correspond with a record-keeping organization under a unique pseudonym which appears in a roster of acceptable clients.

Anonymous communications provides an important privacy service by keeping passive eavesdroppers from linking communicating parties. However, using long-term statistical analysis of traffic sent to and from such a system, it is possible to link senders with their re- ceivers. Cover traffic is an effective, but somewhat limited, counter strat- egy against this attack. Earlier work in this area proposes that privacy- sensitive users generate and send cover traffic to the system.However, users are not online all the time and cannot be expected to send con- sistent levels of cover traffic, drastically reducing the impact of cover traffic. We propose that the mix generate cover traffic that mimi cs the sending patterns of users in the system. This receiver-bound cover helps to make up for users that aren't there, confusing the attacker. We show through simulation how this makes it difficult for an attackerto discern cover from real traffic and perform attacks based on statistical analysis. Our results show that receiver-bound cover substantially increases the time required for these attacks to succeed. When our approach is used in combination with user-generated cover traffic, the attacktakes a very long time to succeed.

Networks of coupled dynamical systems have been used to model biological oscillators, Josephson junction arrays, excitable media, neural networks, spatial games, genetic control networks and many other self-organizing systems. Ordinarily, the connection topology is assumed to be either completely regular or completely random. But many biological, technological and social networks lie somewhere between these two extremes. Here we explore simple models of networks that can be tuned through this middle ground: regular networks 'rewired' to introduce increasing amounts of disorder. We find that these systems can be highly clustered, like regular lattices, yet have small characteristic path lengths, like random graphs. We call them 'small-world' networks, by analogy with the small-world phenomenon (popularly known as six degrees of separation. The neural network of the worm Caenorhabditis elegans, the power grid of the western United States, and the collaboration graph of film actors are shown to be small-world networks. Models of dynamical systems with small-world coupling display enhanced signal-propagation speed, computational power, and synchronizability. In particular, infectious diseases spread more easily in small-world networks than in regular lattices.

- N Emamdoost
- M S Dousti
- R Jalili

Emamdoost, N., Dousti, M.S., Jalili, R.: Statistical disclosure: improved, extended,
and resisted. arXiv preprint arXiv:1710.00101 (2017)

Limits of anonymity in open environments

- D Kedogan
- D Agrawal
- S Penz

Kedogan, D., Agrawal, D., Penz, S.: Limits of anonymity in open environments. In:
Petitcolas, F.A.P. (ed.) IH 2002. LNCS, vol. 2578, pp. 53-69. Springer, Heidelberg
(2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-36415-3 4
