---
url: https://pages.gseis.ucla.edu/faculty/bates/berrypicking.html
title: The Design of Browsing and Berrypicking Techniques
fetched_at: 2026-05-30T19:21:57
content_hash: sha1:58c14a6b5b705df7ddcc7a946178cfa0e43fbf6c
extractor: trafilatura
---

FOR THE ONLINE SEARCH INTERFACE

by
Marcia J. Bates

Graduate School of Library and Information Science

University of California at Los Angeles

Los Angeles, CA 90024-1520

Copyright © 1989

by Marcia J. Bates

All Rights Reserved

|
First, a new model of searching in online and other information systems, called "berrypicking," is discussed. This model, it is argued, is much closer to the real behavior of information searchers than the traditional model of information retrieval is, and, consequently, will guide our thinking better in the design of effective interfaces. Second, the research literature of manual information seeking behavior is drawn on for suggestions of capabilities that users might like to have in online systems. Third, based on the new model and the research on information seeking, suggestions are made for how new search capabilities could be incorporated into the design of search interfaces. Particular attention is given to the nature and types of browsing that can be facilitated.
As more and more different types of databases are brought online, the universe of information available to search online is beginning to to resemble the vast array of sources available in manual print environments. From an original emphasis on bibliographic databases, which are the online equivalent of abstracting and indexing (A & I) services, databanks have expanded to the full text of journals and other documents, as well as directories, encyclopedias, and other reference sources traditionally available in libraries. Soon there really will be something approaching whole libraries accessible by computer. As more types of resource are brought online, however, the searcher has a more complex search environment to consider, both in terms of types of sources to use and search techniques to employ with these sources [1,2]. We need to expand our understanding of these resources and the search techniques to use in them, and at the same time, expand our view of how the search interface should be designed to assist searchers with their new, complex tasks. In this article the following is done: A new model of searching in online and other information systems, called "berrypicking," is discussed. This model, it is argued, is much closer to the real behavior of information searchers than the traditional model of information retrieval is, and, consequently, will guide our thinking better in the design of effective interfaces. The research literature of manual information seeking behavior is drawn on for suggestions of capabilities that users might like to have in online systems. Based on the new model and the research on information seeking, suggestions are made for how these capabilities could be incorporated into the design of search interfaces. Particular attention is given to the nature and types of browsing that can be facilitated. |

|
The classic model of information retrieval (IR) used in information science research for over twenty-five years can be characterized as follows (Compare Robertson [3], especially p. 129):
This model has been very productive and has promoted our understanding of information retrieval in many ways. However, as Kuhn [4] noted, major models that are as central to a field as this one is, eventually begin to show inadequacies as testing leads to greater and greater understanding of the processes being studied. The limitations of the original model's representation of the phenomenon of interest become more and more evident. It is only fitting, then, that in recent years the above classic model has come under attack in various ways [5-8]. Oddy [9] and Belkin et al. [10] have asked why it is necessary for the searcher to find a way to represent the information need in a query understandable by the system. Why cannot the system make it possible for the searcher to express the need directly as they would ordinarily, instead of in an artificial query representation for the system's consumption? At the other end of the model, that of document representation, powerful developments in computing make possible free text and full text searching so that the traditional document representation (controlled vocabulary) takes on a different role and, for some purposes, is less important in much information retrieval practice. Here I want to challenge the model as a whole--to the effect that it represents some searches, but not all, perhaps not even the majority, and that with respect to those it does represent, it frequently does so inadequately. As a formal model for testing, it has taught us much; as a realistic representation of actual searches, it has many limitations. As a consequence, as long as this model dominates information science thinking, it will limit our creativity in developing IR systems that really meet user needs and preferences. The model I am about to propose differs from the traditional one in four areas: 1. Nature of the query. 2. Nature of the overall search process. 3. Range of search techniques used. 4. Information "domain" or territory where the search is conducted. The first two areas will be dealt with in this section and the second two in the next section. Let us return for a closer look at the classic model. Fundamental to it is the idea of a single query presented by the user, matched to the database contents, yielding a single output set. One of Gerard Salton's [11] contributions to research in this area was the idea of iterative feedback to improve output. He developed a system that would modify the query formulation based on user feedback to the first preliminary output set. The formulation would be successively improved through the use of feedback on user document preferences until recall and precision were optimized. But Salton's iterative feedback is still well within the original classic model as presented in Figure 1--because the presumption is that the information need leading to the query is the same, unchanged, throughout, no matter what the user might learn from the documents in the preliminary retrieved set. In fact, if a user in a Salton experiment were to change the query after seeing some documents, it would be "unfair," a violation of the basic design of the experiment. The point of the feedback is to improve the representation of a static need, not to provide information that enables a change in the need itself. So throughout the process of information retrieval evaluation under the the classic model, the query is treated as a single unitary, one-time conception of the problem. Though this assumption is useful for simplifying IR system research, real-life searches frequently do not work this way.
In real-life searches in manual sources, end users may begin with just one feature
of a broader topic, or just one relevant reference, and move through a variety
of sources. Each new piece of information they encounter gives them new ideas
and directions to follow and, consequently, a new conception of the query.
At each stage they are not just modifying the search terms used in order to
get a better match for a single query. Rather the query itself (as well as
the search terms used) is continually shifting, in part or whole. This type
of search is here called an
Furthermore, at each stage, with each different conception of the query, the
user may identify useful information and references. In other words, the query
is satisfied not by a single final retrieved set, but by a series of selections
of individual references and bits of information at each stage of the ever-modifying
search. A bit-at-a-time retrieval of this sort is here called Figure 2 represents a berrypicking, evolving search. In Figure 3 we see the size of the picture shrunk in order to show the context within which the search takes place. The focus of the classic model in Figure 1 is the match between the document and query representations. The focus of the model in Figures 2 and 3 is the sequence of searcher behaviors. The continuity represented by the line of the arrow is the continuity of a single human being moving through many actions toward a general goal of a satisfactory completion of research related to an information need. The changes in direction of the arrow illustrate the changes of an evolving search as the individual follows up various leads and shifts in thinking. The diagram also shows documents and information being produced from the search at many points along the way.
In the case of a straightforward single-match search of the classic sort, we
can think of the arrow as being very short and straight, with a single query
and a single information output set. Thus, we can see that this model differs
from the classic one in the first two respects mentioned above: 1) The There is ample evidence of the popularity of searches of the evolving/berrypicking sort. Reviews of research by Line [12], Hogeweg-de Haart [13], Stone [14], and Stoan [15] attest to the popularity of this approach in a variety of environments, particularly in the social sciences and humanities. A recent landmark study by Ellis [16] on social scientists supports and amplifies the results of earlier studies. Kuhlthau's work [17] with high school students suggests that there is a great deal of exploratory searching that goes on, both before and after a topic for a paper is selected. While the research reviewed here refers largely to the academic environment, I would suggest that many searches by people in many contexts other than academic can also be better characterized by the berrypicking/evolving model than by the classic IR model. The sources consulted may differ, but the process is similar.
It was argued in the previous section that information seekers in manual environments use a berrypicking/evolving search mode. In this section we will examine in more detail some of the search techniques used and information sources consulted by users in manual environments. We might be tempted to say that the path taken in Figures 2 and 3 is simply a series of mini-matches of the classic sort. That is, that at each point where searchers identify documents of interest, they are making a match as represented in Figure 1, and that Figure 2 is simply a representation of searching at a higher level of generality. To make that assumption, however, would be to misrepresent what is being proposed here. Figure 2 is different in essential character, not just in level of generality. Specifically, in a real search there are many different ways people encounter information of interest to them. We will discuss several of them below. Only one of those ways is the kind represented by the classic model. Users employ a number of strategies. With the help particularly of Stoan [15] and Ellis [16], I will describe just six of them, which are widely used:
Until now most of the emphasis in online databanks and other automated IR systems--theoretical, experimental, and operational--has been on use of just one of the above techniques, namely, searching abstracting and indexing services. It is assumed that to do an automated information search, one is searching on a bibliographic database, a list of references with or without abstracts, that is just like an abstracting and indexing service, except that it is online. In experiments, the "document representations" in the classic IR model may involve very sophisticated methods, but most come down to some form of representation of the contents of documents that is usually much shorter, and different from, the documents themselves. In short, most IR research, until a recent flurry of interest in full text databases, has been research on databases of document surrogates. Real searches, by contrast, use all the above techniques and more, in endless variation. It is part of the nature of berrypicking that people adapt the strategy to the particular need at the moment; as the need shifts in part or whole, the strategy often shifts as well--at least for effective searchers. So, to return to an earlier point, the berrypicking model does not represent a number of mini-matches of the classic sort, i.e., between search term and A & I service (database) term. Rather, the evolving/berrypicking search also involves the third and fourth features mentioned earlier: 3) the search techniques change throughout, and 4) the sources searched change in both form and content. We have generally assumed in library/information science that the fifth technique in the list above, the A & I search, is clearly superior to the others. That is an important reason for the primacy given given to the bibliographic search in our research and practice. However, Stenstrom and McBride [18] found, when they asked social science faculty where they got the references for journal articles they used, that over 87 percent of them said they got the references from abstracting journals only occasionally, rarely, or never (p. 429). They relied far more heavily on footnote chasing: 69 percent (p. 429). Both Stoan [15] and Ellis [16] provide evidence and are very persuasive on the power and effectiveness of these other techniques for academic researchers and students at the very least. Some of the other search techniques described above are possible on some systems--see, for example, Palay & Fox [21], Croft & Thompson [22], Cove & Walsh [23], Noerr & Noerr [24]. See also Hildreth's masterly review of intelligent interfaces for bibliographic retrieval systems [25]. Nowhere, to my knowledge, however, are all of these techniques easily applied by a searcher within a single system. A model containing a unified perspective, incorporating the full range of searcher behaviors in the information seeking process, may make it easier to design many more such features for information retrieval systems. Ellis [16] has presented the results of his own research on social scientists and, on that basis, argues for the implementation of most of the above techniques, as well as others not discussed here. The particular mix of different capabilities that should ultimately be made available is a question deserving much more attention in the future. Citation searching is also available, of course, in online systems in the Institute for Scientific Information databases. This searching method is now widely accepted in library/information science as another valuable database approach. Not all readers may be aware, however, of how hard Eugene Garfield had to work in the 1960's and 1970's to persuade librarians of the value of citation searching. I vividly recall observing an otherwise very capable reference instructor telling a class in the late 1960's that a citation index was a waste of money, that it was just a vanity publication for professors--its only value being for them to look up and see who was citing their own work. My point here is that we have yet to fully accept all six of these techniques as valid, effective approaches to information. Even citation indexing, now widely used, was not received easily into the thinking of library/information science. From the standpoint of general effectiveness in searching, it is clear, on reflection, however, that, other things being equal, the searcher with the widest range of search strategies available is the searcher with the greatest retrieval power. We in information science feel that information searchers should take more advantage of A & I services in online or manual form. We, in our turn, should recognize that these other techniques used so commonly by researchers must have some real value for them, and that there may be times when they are preferable (see Stoan [15]). With each of the six retrieval techniques described above, it is possible to think of instances when that technique is clearly superior to the others as a route to the desired information. I would argue on two grounds that these techniques should all be available in at least some future automated IR systems, and that our model of information retrieval should include berrypicking through use of these and other techniques: 1. The more different strategies searchers can use an information store, the more retrieval effectiveness and efficiency is possible. 2. There are many experienced searchers who use these techniques already--in a berrypicking mode--with great satisfaction. These approaches represent well established patterns that are handed down from scholars to their students and which work well for them in many cases. If we want to meet users' needs, we should enable them to search in familiar ways that are effective for them. To summarize the argument to this point, this model of searching differs from the traditional one not only in that it reflects evolving, berrypicking searches, but also searches in a much wider variety of sources, and using a much wider variety of search techniques than has been typically represented in information retrieval models to date. With this broader picture of information retrieval in mind, many new design possibilities open up. In the next section, some of those possibilities will be examined, with particular attention to the role of browsing in the broader search process.
Concepts of browsing in IR systems are becoming more and more sophisticated.
See Noerr & Noerr [24], Wade & Willett [26], Cove & Walsh [23],
Hildreth [27], Bawden [28], Ingwersen & Wormell [29]. But there is still
a lingering tendency in information science to see browsing However, as Ellis notes [16], browsing is an important part of standard information searching; he calls it "semi-directed or semi-structured searching" when used this way. He recommends that browsing of a variety of types of information, e.g., contents pages, lists of cited works, subject terms, should be made available in automated systems. He further argues that since the user is doing the browsing, and we therefore do not have to design a cognitive model of user browsing into the system, that providing browsing features should be relatively simple.
Relatively simpler perhaps, but making effective provision for browsing capabilities
involves its own complexities. The techniques above combine browsing and conventional
use of the information access apparatus in a variety of The nature of browsing associated with each of the techniques listed above is examined in more detail below. Key Design features recommended for automated IR systems will be stated for each technique. So that there is no confusion, however, I want to emphasize that browsing and berrypicking are not the same behavior. There will be a great deal of discussion of browsing in the remainder of this article, but only because browsing has gotten less attention in our field that other kinds of searching. Berrypicking involves the use of a wide variety of techniques, some of which are very standard, and others which involve a considerable amount of browsing. One of the points emphasized in this model is precisely that people use a wide variety of techniques. Each of the six techniques is discussed below, followed by some general points about database and interface design for berrypicking and browsing.
In cases where the journal coverage is a more specific subject area, however, reviewing the contents lists or articles in that journal may be an excellent way to see quickly a large number of articles exactly in the heart of an area that interests one. The grouping of articles that results from their joint publication in a journal can be expected to be coherent and well thought out, since the focus of journals is generally well defined by editors for prospective authors.
The effect of this latter method is to "jump the rails" of the classification scheme, to skip to other parts of the scheme that are near the starting point, without having to look at every single intervening book and category. This technique represents a deliberate breaking up of the conventional classified order, while enabling the searcher to remain in the same general initial subject area. Thus the search domain may consist of a variety of specific areas within one larger area. Area scanning is the quintessential form of browsing in manual environments. As noted earlier, the research shows that it has remained very popular over many years among users. It is reasonable to presume that it meets some real needs. More research into why this approach is popular is desirable. However, here are a couple of guesses: 1) The searcher is exposed to a variety of related areas, some of which, because of the jumping around, may be related in unexpected ways--thus producing serendipitous discoveries. 2) The searcher can look directly at the full text of the materials. By flipping through the pages and reading a passage here and there, the searcher gets a quick gestalt sense of the "feel" or character of the author and his or her approach. Whatever that feel is, it is almost never accessible through any classification or subject description.
It may help the discussion here if we compare the manual form of A & I services, and consider how they are used for browsing. We may be able to do more, of course, with the online form, but let us first see if the text lends itself to browsing in principle. A very common pattern in manual forms of A & I services is to arrange the abstracts by a classified order, and attach a subject index using more specific subject terms. When an online searcher searches by controlled vocabulary, or by free text on the titles and abstracts, all the entries associated with the more specific subject terms are brought together in one location, so they become easy to examine. In the manual form, usually only the abstract numbers are brought together in the index. So grouping entries by these specific terms is a useful function of online services, though the browsing potential is limited for the reasons given above. Since the A & I services generally arrange the abstracts by a classified order, it is possible in the manual form to browse through the abstracts in a classified section. This is generally impractical in online databases unless the search is also limited to certain dates or issues of the service, because the online database usually combines many years of the service in one, and each classification category therefore contains very large numbers of items (see Bates [30]). However, in a database in which cost per reference is not a factor, then some sort of browsing in the classified sections might be possible, particularly if brief forms of the reference were printed out, so many could be seen on the screen at once.
Each of these approaches can be seen as a different way to identify and exploit particular regions in the total information store that are more likely than other regions to contain information of interest for the search at hand. To put it differently, these are different ways of identifying berry patches in the forest, and then going berrypicking within them.
To reproduce the above search capabilities, databases will need to contain very large bodies of full text, as well as different types of text (narrative, statistical, bibliographic references, etc.). At the same time the structure of the databases will need to be such that the searcher can move quickly from one form of information to another, in other words, not have to follow a complicated routine to withdraw from one database and enter another. Several authors have pointed out the value of helping the user of a system develop a mental model or "metaphor" of the system to guide them [32-34]. Various models have been used in the design of interfaces for information systems, for example, Weyer [35 ] used the book, which approach was also supported by Elkerton & Williges [34] in their research, and Borgman [36] used the card catalog. In teaching students general information searching, Huston [37] has suggested using the model of community-based information networks as a basis for explaining the online literature reviewing process. Hannabuss [38], on the other hand, has argued for a view of information seeking as a form of conversation, especially with reference to the pattern of turn taking in conversation, and those parts of conversation that involve question asking and answering. Now that so many different types of information are going online, including much full text, a good place to start as a model of information searching for a berrypicking interface might be the physical library itself. It is the actual physical layout of a library that people are most familiar with, rather than the complex intellectual relationships we develop among catalog entries, books, periodical indexes, journals, etc. Creating a virtual physical layout on the screen may make it easier for the searcher to think of moving among familiar cateogries of resources in an information retrieval system, in the same manner in which they move among resources in the actual library. This may be particular useful at the beginning of a search, when the user could see a physical representation of an imaginary library on the screen. The searcher might then be reminded of whole classes of resource which they might otherwise forget. Many years ago, the psychologist George Miller [39] pointed out how very physical our memories are, and how easily we remember things by their physical location. Jones & Dumais [40] challenge the idea that spatial metaphors help information system users recall where something was filed. However, I am suggesting the idea primarily as an orientation device, a way to give users a familiar basis from which to move forward. (See also [41-44], and Hildreth's [25] discussion of the General Research Corporation's "Laserguide" CD-ROM online catalog, p. 90-94.) There are many complex issues involved in adapting such a model in an interface, which cannot be dealt with here. Suffice it to say that the transfer will not be simple, and may ultimately be modifed somewhat away from the more literal image of the library as testing proceeds and as users gain greater familarity with computer interfaces generally. Browsing in a manual environment is a physical activity, involving body or eye movements of a fairly random character. Thus to be effective in an online environment, a browsing capability should also allow for random movement, at least of the eyes. An aspect of browsing that has been commented upon is the juxtaposition, in time or space, of different ideas or documents that stimulate the thinking of the information searcher ([45], p. 53). To reproduce this in an online environment, it will be necessary to make rapid movement across large amounts of text possible. The physical metaphor of the library that was suggested above may facilitate such searching particularly well. For example, if the interface can produce a picture on the screen that looks like the books on a shelf, the searcher can transfer a familiar experience to the automated system. If then, a mouse or similar device makes it possible to, in effect, move among the books, a familiar physical experience is reproduced and the searcher can take advantage of well-developed browsing skills. Until the full texts of books are online, the searcher may examine extensive subject information about the book, such as contents lists, index entries, and the like [46]. Once such a form of movement is possible online, it should be transferable to other kinds of information environments where such movement was more difficult in manual situations. For example, the searcher might move among categories of a classification scheme used in an A & I service, or follow up leads of related terms in a high-powered online thesaurus. (See also Bates [8].) As noted earlier, the value of flipping through the pages of a book may be due, at least in part, to being able to read passages of a writer's work to get a feel for his or her approach and determine whether it appeals. In large full text databases it will be desirable to be able to do this as well. It would be easy to program a command that would produce a series of randomly selected passages, or "snapshots," each two or three paragraphs in length. Such passages should be truly randomly selected--just as happens whe we flip through an article or book--because it is precisely what is not indexed that we want to sample. Incidentally, in a recent study, based on a random sample drawn from three different types of libraries, I learned that both reference books and "regular" books use a surprisingly limited and robust set of patterns of organization within the book. These patterns have endured in very stable form over hundreds of years and in many Western cultures [47]. The overwhelming majority of contents lists, for example, are two pages or less in length. Thus, plans to use snapshots of text for browsing purposes, therefore, should not produce nasty surprises in terms of displaying segments of complex or unusual file structures. (I am speaking of the structure of the book as a whole, not of what may appear internally to a diagram or illustration.)
The searcher should be able, with a single command, to call for a search mode
and screen that is set up for one of the six techniques above (or others).
That is, it should not be necessary to issue a string of commands to get the
information needed on screen to begin. Hypertext approaches appear tailor-made for berrypicking searching [48]. Being able to jump instantly to full bibliographic citations from references in the text, for example, is a technique that hypertext handles well. Berrypicking frequently requires the capability of seeing substantial quantities of information on the screen at once. Screens used should be high definition for easy reading and scanning. The interface design should make it easy to highlight or otherwise flag information and references to be sent to a temporary store. Said store can then be printed out when the searcher is ready to leave off searching. The necessity otherwise either to write information down by hand or print out information in bits and pieces interspersed between search commands would be tiresome and would reduce search effectiveness.
As the sizes and variety of databases grow and the power of search interfaces increases, users will more and more expect to be able to search automated information stores in ways that are comfortable and familiar to them. We need first, to have a realistic model of how people go about looking for information now, and second, to find ways to devise databases and search interfaces that enable searchers to operate in ways that feel natural. A model of searching called "berrypicking' has been proposed here, which, in contrast to the classic model of information retrieval, says that typical search queries are not static, but rather evolve searchers commonly gather information in bits and pieces instead of in one grand best retrieved set searchers use a wide variety of search techniques which extend beyond those commonly associated with bibliographic databases searchers use a wide variety of sources other than bibliographic databases. Drawing on the research of Ellis [16], Stoan [15], and others, a half dozen typical search techniques used in manual sources have been described (footnote chasing, citation searching, journal run, area scanning, A & I searches, author searches). The specific behaviors associated with these techniques, in particular, browsing behaviors, have been analyzed. Methods have been proposed for the implementation of these techniques in database design and search interface design in online systems. In conclusion, as Rouse & Rouse [49] note, after an extensive survey of the literature of information seeking behavior: Because information needs change in time and depend on the particular information seeker, systems should be sufficiently flexible to allow the user to adapt the information seeking process to his own current needs. Examples of such flexibility include the design of interactive dialogues and aiding techniques that do not reflect rigid assumptions about the user's goals and style (p. 135).
[1] Martha E. Williams,
'Transparent Information Systems through Gateways, Front Ends, Intermediaries,
and Interfaces', [2] Donald T. Hawkins,
Louise R. Levy, and K. Leon Montgomery, 'Knowledge Gateways: The Building Blocks',
[3] S. E. Robertson, 'Theories
and Models in Information Retrieval', [4] Thomas S. Kuhn, [5] D. Ellis, 'The Effectiveness
of Information Retrieval Systems: The Need for Improved Explanatory Frameworks,'
[6] David Ellis, 'Theory
and Explanation in Information Retrieval Research', [7] Marcia J. Bates, 'An
Exploratory Paradigm for Online Information Retrieval', IN B.C. Brookes, ed.,
[8] Marcia J. Bates, 'Subject
Access in Online Catalogs: A Design Model,' [9] R. N. Oddy, 'Information
Retrieval through Man-Machine-Dialogue', [10] N.J. Belkin, R.N. Oddy,
and [11] Gerard. Salton. [12] Maurice B. Line. 'Information Requirements in the Social Sciences', IN [13] H.P. Hogeweg-de-Haart,
'Characteristics of Social Science Information: A Selective Review of the Literature.
Part II', [14] Sue Stone, 'Humanities
Scholars: Information Needs and Uses', [15] Stephen K. Stoan, 'Research
and Library Skills: An Analysis and Interpretation', [16] David Ellis, 'A Behavioural
Approach to Information Retrieval System Design', [17] Carol Collier Kuhlthau,
'Developing a Model of the Library Search Process: Cognitive and Affective Aspects',
[18] Patricia Stenstrom,
and Ruth B. McBride, 'Serial Use by Social Science Faculty: A Survey', [19] C.J. Frarey, 'Studies
of Use of the Subject Catalog: Summary and Evaluation', IN Maurice F. Tauber,
ed., [20] Micheline Hancock,
'Subject Searching Behavior at the Library Catalogue and at the Shelves: Implications
for Online Interactive Catalogues', [21] Andrew J. Palay and
Mark S. Fox, 'Browsing through Databases', IN R.N. Oddy, et al., eds., [22] W.B. Croft and R.H.
Thompson, 'I [23] J.F. Cove and B.C.
Walsh, 'Online Text Retrieval via Browsing', [24] Peter L. Noerr and
Kathleen T. Bivins Noerr. 'Browse and Navigate: An Advance in Database Access
Methods', [25] Charles R. Hildreth,
[26] Stephen J. Wade and
Peter Willett, 'INSTRUCT: A Teaching Package for Experimental Methods in Information
Retrieval. Part III. Browsing, Clustering and Query Expansion', [27] Charles R. Hildreth,
'Online Browsing Support Capabilities', [28] David Bawden, 'Information
Systems and the Stimulation of Creativity', [29] Peter Ingwersen and
Irene Wormell, 'Improved Subject Access, Browsing and Scanning Mechanisms in
Modern Online IR', [30] Marcia J. Bates, 'The
Fallacy of the Perfect 30-Item Online Search', [31] Marcia J. Bates, 'Rigorous
Systematic Bibliography', [32] Donald A. [33] John M. Carroll and
John C. Thomas, 'Metaphor and the Cognitive Representation of Computer Systems',
-12,
2, 1982, pp. 107-116.[34] Jay Elkerton and Robert
C. Williges, 'Information Retrieval Strategies in a File-Search Environment',
[35] [36] Christine L. Borgman,
'The User's Mental Model of an Information Retrieval System: An Experiment on
a Prototype Online Catalog', [37] Mary M. Huston, 'Search
Theory and Instruction for End Users of Online Bibliographic Information Retrieval
Systems: A Literature Review', [38] Stuart Hannabuss, 'Dialogue
and the Search for Information', [39] George A. Miller, 'Psychology
and Information', [40] William P. Jones and
Susan T. Dumais, 'The Spatial Metaphor for User Interfaces: Experimental Tests
of Reference by Location versus Name', [41] John L. Bennett, 'Spatial
Concepts as an Organizing Principle for Interactive Bibligraphic Search', IN
Donald E. Walker, ed., [42] Richard A. Bolt, [43] D.D. Woods, 'Visual
Momentum: A Concept to Improve the Cognitive Coupling of Person and Computer',
[44] Dee Michel, 'When Does
It Make Sense to Use Graphic Representations in Interactive Bibliographic Retrieval
Systems?', manuscript, [45] D.J. Foskett, [46] P. Atherton, [47] Marcia J. Bates, 'What
is a Reference Book? A Theoretical and Empirical Analysis', [48] Jeff Conklin, [49] William B. Rouse and
Sandra H. Rouse, 'Human Information Seeking and Design of Information Systems',
|
